SUPER STAR   |   UIN : SHAHLIP25036V012425   |   POL / SS / V.4 / 2025
1  /   38
The proposal, declaration and other documents given 
by the proposer shall be the basis of this Contract and is 
deemed to be incorporated herein.
Section I - Definitions
S T A N D A R D  D E F I N I T I O N S
Accident: An accident means sudden, unforeseen and 
involuntary event caused by external, visible and violent means.
Any one illness: Any one illness means continuous period 
of illness and includes relapse within 45 days from the date 
of last consultation with the Hospital / Nursing Home where 
treatment was taken.
AYUSH Day Care Centre: AYUSH Day Care Centre means 
and includes Community Health Centre (CHC), Primary 
Health Centre (PHC), Dispensary, Clinic, Polyclinic or 
any such health centre which is registered with the local 
authorities, wherever applicable and having facilities for 
carrying out treatment procedures and medical or surgical 
/ para-surgical interventions or both under the supervision 
of registered AYUSH Medical Practitioner (s) on day care 
basis without in-patient services and must comply with all 
the following criterion:
i. 
Having 
qualified 
registered 
AYUSH 
Medical 
Practitioner(s) in charge;
ii.	
Having dedicated AYUSH therapy sections as required 
and / or has equipped operation theatre where surgical 
procedures are to be carried out;
iii.	 Maintaining daily records of the patients and making 
them accessible to the insurance company’s authorized 
representative.
AYUSH Hospital: An AYUSH Hospital is a healthcare facility 
wherein medical / surgical / para-surgical treatment 
procedures and interventions are carried out by AYUSH 
Medical Practitioner(s) comprising of any of the following:
a.	 Central or State Government AYUSH Hospital; or
b.	 Teaching hospital attached to AYUSH College recognized 
by the Central Government / Central Council of Indian 
Medicine / Central Council for Homeopathy; or
c.	 AYUSH Hospital, standalone or co-located with in-
patient healthcare facility of any recognized system of 
medicine, registered with the local authorities, wherever 
applicable, and is under the supervision of a qualified 
registered AYUSH Medical Practitioner and must comply 
with all the following criterion:
i.	
Having at least 5 in-patient beds;
ii. 
Having qualified AYUSH Medical Practitioner in 
charge round the clock;
iii.	 Having dedicated AYUSH therapy sections as 
required and / or has equipped operation theatre 
where surgical procedures are to be carried out;
iv.	 Maintaining daily records of the patients and making 
them accessible to the insurance company’s 
authorized representative.
AYUSH Treatment: AYUSH treatment refers to the medical 
and / or hospitalization treatments given under Ayurveda, 
Yoga and Naturopathy, Unani, Siddha and Homeopathy 
systems.
Break in policy: Break in policy means the period of gap 
that occurs at the end of the existing policy term/instalment 
premium due date, when the premium due for renewal on 
a given policy or instalment premium due is not paid on or 
before the premium renewal date or Grace Period.
Cashless facility: Cashless facility means a facility 
extended by the insurer to the insured where the payments, 
of the costs of treatment undergone by the insured in 
accordance with the policy terms and conditions, are 
directly made to the network provider by the insurer to the 
extent pre-authorization is approved.
Condition Precedent: Condition Precedent means a policy 
term or condition upon which the Insurer’s liability under 
the policy is conditional upon.
Congenital Anomaly: Congenital Anomaly means a 
condition which is present since birth, and which is 
abnormal with reference to form, structure or position.
a)	 Internal Congenital Anomaly: Congenital anomaly 
which is not in the visible and accessible parts of the 
body
b)	 External Congenital Anomaly: Congenital anomaly 
which is in the visible and accessible parts of the body
P O L I C Y  W O R D I N G S 
SUPER STAR
Unique Identification No: SHAHLIP25036V012425
STAR HEALTH AND ALLIED INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
Registered Office: No. 1, New Tank Street, Valluvar Kottam High Road, Nungambakkam, Chennai - 600 034. Phone : 044 - 28288800
Corporate Office: No. 148, Acropolis, Dr. Radha Krishnan Salai, Mylapore, Chennai - 600 004. Phone : 044 - 4788 6666
Email: support@starhealth.in | Website: www.starhealth.in | CIN: L66010TN2005PLC056649 | IRDAI Regn. No.: 129
STAR HEALTH AND ALLIED INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED   |   POLICY WORDINGS 
SUPER STAR   |   UIN : SHAHLIP25036V012425   |   POL / SS / V.4 / 2025
2  /   38
Co-Payment: 
Co-payment 
means 
a 
cost 
sharing 
requirement 
under 
a 
health 
insurance 
policy 
that 
provides that the policyholder / insured will bear a 
specified percentage of the admissible claims amount. A 
co‑payment does not reduce the Sum Insured.
Cumulative Bonus: Cumulative Bonus means any increase 
or addition in the Sum Insured granted by the insurer 
without an associated increase in premium.
Day Care Centre: A day care centre means any institution 
established for day care treatment of illness and / or injuries 
or a medical setup with a hospital and which has been 
registered with the local authorities, wherever applicable, 
and is under supervision of a registered and qualified 
medical practitioner AND must comply with all minimum 
criterion as under-
i) 
has qualified nursing staff under its employment;
ii) has qualified medical practitioner/s in charge;
iii)	 has fully equipped operation theatre of its own where 
surgical procedures are carried out;
iv)	 maintains daily records of patients and will make these 
accessible to the insurance company’s authorized 
personnel.
Day Care Treatment: Day care treatment means medical 
treatment, and / or surgical procedure which is:
i.	
Undertaken under General or Local Anesthesia in a 
hospital / day care centre in less than 24 hrs because of 
technological advancement, and
ii.	
which would have otherwise required hospitalization of 
more than 24hours
Treatment normally taken on an out-patient basis is not 
included in the scope of this definition
Deductible: Deductible means a cost sharing requirement 
under a health insurance policythat provides that the 
insurer will not be liable for a specified rupee amount in 
case of indemnity policies and for a specified number of 
days / hours in case of hospital cash policies which will 
apply before any benefits are payable by the insurer. A 
deductible does not reduce the Sum Insured.
Dental Treatment: Dental treatment means a treatment 
related to teeth or structures supporting teeth including 
examinations, 
fillings 
(where 
appropriate), 
crowns, 
extractions and surgery.
Disclosure to information norm: The policy shall be void and 
all premium paid thereon shall be forfeited to the Company 
in the event of misrepresentation, mis-description or non-
disclosure of any material fact by the Policy Holder.
Domiciliary Hospitalization: Domiciliary hospitalization 
means medical treatment for an illness / disease / injury 
which in the normal course would require care and 
treatment at a hospital but is actually taken while confined 
at home under any of the following circumstances:
i)	
the condition of the patient is such that he / she is not in 
a condition to be removed to a hospital, or
ii)	 the patient takes treatment at home on account of 
non-availability of room in a hospital
Emergency Care: Emergency care means management 
for an illness or injury which results in symptoms which 
occur suddenly and unexpectedly, and requires immediate 
care by a medical practitioner to prevent death or serious 
long term impairment of the insured person’s health.
Grace Period: “Grace period” means the specified period 
of time, immediately following the premium due date 
during which premium payment can be made to renew or 
continue a policy in force without loss of continuity benefits 
pertaining to waiting periods and coverage of pre-existing 
diseases. Coverage need not be available during the period 
for which no premium is received. The grace period for 
payment of the premium for all types of insurance policies 
shall be: fifteen days where premium payment mode is 
monthly and thirty days in all other cases.
Provided the insurers shall offer coverage during the grace 
period, if the premium is paid in instalments during the 
policy period
Hospital: A hospital means any institution established 
for in-patient care and day care treatment of illness and 
/ or injuries and which has been registered as a hospital 
with the local authorities under Clinical Establishments 
(Registration and Regulation) Act 2010 or under enactments 
specified under the Schedule of Section 56(1) of the said act 
or complies with all minimum criteria asunder:
i) 
has qualified nursing staff under its employment round 
the clock;
ii)	 has at least 10 in-patient beds in towns having a 
population of less than 10,00,000 and at least 15 in-
patient beds in all other places;
iii)	 has qualified medical practitioner(s) in charge round 
the clock;
iv)	 has a fully equipped operation theatre of its own where 
surgical procedures are carried out;
v)	 maintains daily records of patients and makes these 
accessible to the insurance company’s authorized 
personnel;
Hospitalization: Hospitalization means admission in a 
Hospital for a minimum period of 24 consecutive ‘Inpatient 
Care’ hours except for specified procedures / treatments, 
where such admission could be for a period of less than 24 
consecutive hours.
Illness: Illness means a sickness or a disease or pathological 
condition leading to the impairment of normal physiological 
function and requires medical treatment;
(a)	Acute condition - Acute condition is a disease, illness or 
injury that is likely to respond quickly to treatment which 
aims to return the person to his or her state of health 
immediately before suffering the disease / illness / 
injury which leads to full recovery
(b)	Chronic condition - A chronic condition is defined as 
a disease, illness, or injury that has one or more of the 
following characteristics;
1.	
It needs ongoing or long-term monitoring through 
consultations, examinations, check-ups, and / or tests
STAR HEALTH AND ALLIED INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED   |   POLICY WORDINGS 
SUPER STAR   |   UIN : SHAHLIP25036V012425   |   POL / SS / V.4 / 2025
3  /   38
2.	 it needs ongoing or long-term control or relief of 
symptoms
3.	 it requires rehabilitation for the patient or for the 
patient to be specially trained to cope with it
4.	 it continues indefinitely
5.	 it recurs or is likely to recur
Injury: Injury means accidental physical bodily harm 
excluding illness or disease solely and directly caused by 
external, violent, visible and evident means which is verified 
and certified by a Medical Practitioner.
Inpatient Care: Inpatient care means treatment for which 
the insured person has to stay in a hospital for more than 
24 hours for a covered event.
Intensive Care Unit: Intensive care unit means an 
identified section, ward or wing of a hospital which is 
under the constant supervision of a dedicated medical 
practitioner(s), and which is specially equipped for the 
continuous monitoring and treatment of patients who are 
in a critical condition, or require life support facilities and 
where the level of care and supervision is considerably 
more sophisticated and intensive than in the ordinary and 
otherwards.
Note: Such facility must be separate and apart from 
surgical recovery room and from rooms’ beds and wards 
customarily used for patient confinement.
ICU Charges: ICU (Intensive Care Unit) Charges means the 
amount charged by a Hospital towards ICU expenses which 
shall include the expenses for ICU bed, general medical 
support services provided to any ICU patient including 
monitoring devices, critical care nursing and intensivist 
charges.
Medical Advice: Medical Advice means any consultation or 
advice from a Medical Practitioner including the issuance 
of any prescription or follow-up prescription.
Medical Expenses: Medical 
Expenses 
means 
those 
expenses that an Insured Person has necessarily and 
actually incurred for medical treatment on account of 
Illness or Accident on the advice of a Medical Practitioner, as 
long as these are no more than would have been payable if 
the Insured Person had not been insured and no more than 
other hospitals or doctors in the same locality would have 
charged for the same medical treatment.
Medical Practitioner: Medical Practitioner means a person 
who holds a valid registration from the Medical Council of 
any State or Medical Council of India or Council for Indian 
Medicine or for Homeopathy set up by the Government 
of India or a State Government and is thereby entitled to 
practice medicine within its jurisdiction; and is acting within 
its scope and jurisdiction of license.
Medically Necessary Treatment: Medically necessary 
treatment means any treatment, tests, medication, or stay 
in hospital or part of a stay in hospital which:
i)	
is required for the medical management of the illness or 
injury suffered by the insured;
ii)	 must not exceed the level of care necessary to provide 
safe, adequate and appropriate medical care in scope, 
duration, or intensity;
iii)	 must have been prescribed by a medical practitioner;
iv)	 must conform to the professional standards widely 
accepted in international medical practice or by the 
medical community in India.
Migration: 
Migration 
means 
a 
facility 
provided 
to 
policyholders (including all members under family cover 
and group policies), to transfer the credits gained for pre-
existing diseases and specific waiting periods from one 
health insurance policy to another with the same insurer.
Network Provider: Network Provider means hospitals or 
health care providers enlisted by an insurer, TPA or jointly 
by an Insurer and TPA to provide medical services to an 
insured by a cashless facility.
New Born Baby: Newborn baby means baby born during 
the Policy Period and is aged upto 90 days.
Non-Network Provider: Non-Network means any hospital, 
daycare centre or other provider that is not part of the 
network.
Notification of Claim: Notification of claim means the 
process of intimating a claim to the insurer or TPA through 
any of the recognized modes of communication.
OPD treatment: OPD treatment means the one in which the 
Insured visits a clinic / hospital or associated facility like 
a consultation room for diagnosis and treatment based 
on the advice of a Medical Practitioner. The Insured is not 
admitted as a day care or in-patient.
Pre-Existing Disease: Pre-existing disease (PED) means 
any condition, ailment, injury or disease:
a)	 that is / are diagnosed by a physician not more than 
36 months prior to the date of commencement of the 
policy issued by the insurer; or
b)	 for 
which 
medical 
advice 
or 
treatment 
was 
recommended by, or received from, a physician, 
not more than 36 months prior to the date of 
commencement of the policy.
Pre-hospitalization Medical Expenses: Pre-hospitalization 
Medical Expenses means medical expenses incurred during 
pre-defined number of days preceding the hospitalization 
of the Insured Person, provided that:
i.	
Such Medical Expenses are incurred for the same 
condition for which the Insured Person’s Hospitalization 
was required, and
ii.	
The In-patient Hospitalization claim for such Hospitalization 
is admissible by the Insurance Company
STAR HEALTH AND ALLIED INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED   |   POLICY WORDINGS 
SUPER STAR   |   UIN : SHAHLIP25036V012425   |   POL / SS / V.4 / 2025
4  /   38
Portability: Portability means a facility provided to the health 
insurance policyholders (including all members under 
family cover), to transfer the credits gained for, pre‑existing 
diseases and specific waiting periods from one insurer to 
another insurer.
Post-hospitalization Medical Expenses: Post‑hospitalization 
Medical Expenses means medical expenses incurred during 
pre-defined number of days immediately after the insured 
person is discharged from the hospital provided that:
i.	
Such Medical Expenses are for the same condition for which 
the insured person’s hospitalization was required, and
ii.	
The 
inpatient 
hospitalization 
claim 
for 
such 
hospitalization is admissible by the insurance company.
Qualified Nurse: Qualified nurse means a person who holds 
a valid registration from the Nursing Council of India or the 
Nursing Council of any state in India.
Reasonable and Customary Charges: Reasonable and 
Customary charges means the charges for services or 
supplies, which are the standard charges for the specific 
provider and consistent with the prevailing charges in the 
geographical area for identical or similar services, taking 
into account the nature of the illness / injury involved.
Renewal: Renewal means the terms on which the contract 
of insurance can be renewed on mutual consent with a 
provision of grace period for treating the renewal continuous 
for the purpose of gaining credit for pre-existing diseases, 
time-bound exclusions and for all waiting periods.
Room Rent: Room Rent means the amount charged by a 
Hospital towards Room and Boarding expenses and shall 
include the associated medical expenses.
Specific Waiting Period: Specific Waiting Period means 
a period up to 36 months from the commencement of a 
health insurance policy during which period specified 
diseases/treatments (except due to an Accident) are not 
covered. On completion of the period, diseases/treatments 
shall be covered provided the policy has been continuously 
renewed without any break.
Surgery or Surgical Procedure: Surgery or Surgical 
Procedure means manual and / or operative procedure(s) 
required for treatment of an illness or injury, correction of 
deformities and defects, diagnosis and cure of diseases, 
relief from suffering and prolongation of life, performed in a 
hospital or day care centre by a medical practitioner.
Unproven 
/ 
Experimental 
treatment: 
Unproven 
/ 
Experimental treatment means the treatment including 
drug experimental therapy which is not based on 
established medical practice in India, is treatment 
experimental or unproven.
S P E C I F I C  D E F I N I T I O N S
Aggregate Deductible: The aggregate of admissible 
hospitalisation expenses in a policy year up to which the 
Company is not liable.
Associated 
medical expenses: 
Associated 
medical 
expenses means medical expenses such as Professional 
fees, OT charges, Procedure charges, etc., which vary based 
on the room category occupied by the insured person whilst 
undergoing treatment in some of the hospitals. If Policy 
Holder chooses a higher room category above the eligibility 
defined in policy, then proportionate deduction will apply 
on the Associated Medical Expenses in addition to the 
difference in room rent. Such associated medical expenses 
do not include Cost of pharmacy and consumables, Cost 
of implants and medical devices and Cost of diagnostics.
Assisted Reproduction Treatment: Assisted Reproduction 
Treatment 
means 
Intra 
UterineInsemination 
(IUI), 
Intra‑Cytoplasmic 
Sperm 
Injection 
(ICSI), 
In-Vitro 
Fertilisation(IVF) and TESA / TESE (Testicular / Epididymal 
Sperm Aspiration / Extraction)
Company / Insurer / We / Us: Company / Insurer / We / Us 
means Star Health and Allied Insurance Company Limited
Dependent Child: Dependent Child means a child (natural 
or legally adopted) who is financially dependent and does 
not have his / her independent sources of income and not 
over 25 years.
Diagnosis: Diagnosis means diagnosis by a registered 
medical practitioner, supported by clinical, radiological, 
histological, histo-pathological and laboratory evidence 
and 
also 
surgical 
evidence 
wherever 
applicable, 
acceptable to the Company.
Doctor: Doctor means a person who holds a valid 
registration from the Medical Council of any State or 
Medical Council of India or Council for Indian Medicine or for 
Homeopathy set up by the Government of India or a State 
Government and is thereby entitled to practice medicine 
within its jurisdiction; and is acting within its scope and 
jurisdiction of license.
Family: Family  includes Insured Person, spouse / live in 
partner, dependent children between 91 days and 25 years 
of age not exceeding 4 in number.
Home: Home means the Insured Person’s place of residence.
Home Care Treatment: Home Care Treatment means 
treatment availed by the Insured Person at home, which 
in normal course would require care and treatment at a 
hospital but is actually taken at home provided that:
a)	 The Medical practitioner advices the Insured person to 
undergo treatment at home
b)	 There is a continuous active line of treatment with 
monitoring of the health status by a medical practitioner 
for each day through the duration of the home care 
treatment
c)	 Daily monitoring chart including records of treatment 
administered duly signed by the treating doctor is 
maintained
Insured Person: Insured Person means the name/s of 
persons named in the schedule of the Policy
Instalment: Instalment means frequency of Premium 
amount paid through Monthly / Quarterly / Half-yearly 
mode by the Policy Holder / Insured
In-patient treatment: In-patient treatment means an 
Insured Person who is admitted to Hospital and stays there 
for a minimum period of 24 hours for the sole purpose of 
receiving treatment.
STAR HEALTH AND ALLIED INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED   |   POLICY WORDINGS 
SUPER STAR   |   UIN : SHAHLIP25036V012425   |   POL / SS / V.4 / 2025
5  /   38
Policy Period / Policy year: Policy period / Policy year 
means a year following the commencement date and its 
subsequent annual anniversary
Policy term: Policy term means the period between the 
commencement date and expiry date specified in the 
schedule
Sum Insured: Sum Insured means the Sum Insured Opted 
for and for which the premium is paid.
Shared Accommodation: Shared Accommodation means 
a room with two or more patient beds in a Hospital.
General Ward / Economy Ward: General Ward / Economy 
Ward means room with three or more patient beds in a 
Hospital.
Zone A: Delhi, New Delhi, Faridabad, Gurugram, Shahdara, 
Ahmedabad, Surat, Vadodara, Gautam Buddha Nagar, 
Ghaziabad, Mewat, Alwar, Baghpat, Bhiwani, Bulandshahar, 
Fatehabad, Hisar, jhajjar, Jind, Kaithal, Karnal, Kurukshetra, 
Mahendragarh, Meerut, Muzaffar nagar, Palwal, Panchsheel 
Nagar, Panipat, Rewari, Rohtak, Saharanpur, Sirsa, Sonipat, 
Mumbai (Including suburban), Rest of Gujarat, Thane, 
Palghar and Raigad
Zone 
B: 
Chennai, 
Ernakulam, 
Thiruvananthapuram, 
Bengaluru, Chengalpattu, Kanchipuram, Nashik, Pune, 
Tiruvallur, Hyderabad, Kollam, Wayanad, Indore, K V Ranga 
Reddy, Medchal Malkajgiri, Ahmed Nagar and Gwalior
Zone C: Rest of India
Section II - Coverage
In consideration of the premium paid, subject to the terms, 
conditions, exclusions and definitions contained herein the 
Company agrees as under. 
If during the period stated in the Policy Schedule the 
insured person sustains bodily injury or contracts any 
disease or suffer from any illness and if such disease or 
injury shall require the Insured person, upon the advice of 
a duly qualified Medical Practitioner to incur Hospitalization 
expenses for Medical / Surgical treatment at any Nursing 
Home / Hospital in India as an In-patient, the Company 
will indemnify the Insured Person such expenses as are 
reasonably and necessarily incurred under the Coverage 
but not exceeding the sum insured/ annual sum insured/ 
appropriate benefit stated in the Policy schedule.
B A S I C  C O V E R
1.	
In-patient Treatment: We will cover the following 
Medical Expenses incurred in respect of Hospitalization 
of the Insured Person during the Policy Period, up to the 
Sum Insured specified in the Policy Schedule against 
this In-Patient treatment:
(i)	 Room Rent (Any Room), Boarding, Nursing Expenses 
as provided by the Hospital / Nursing Home 
(ii)	Intensive Care Unit (ICU) Charges 
(iii)	Surgeon, 
Anesthetist, 
Medical 
Practitioner, 
Consultants, Specialist Fees
(iv)	Anesthesia, 
blood, 
oxygen, 
operation 
theatre 
charges, surgical appliances, medicines and drugs, 
diagnostic materials and X-ray, diagnostic imaging 
modalities, dialysis, chemotherapy, radiotherapy, 
cost of pacemaker, stent and similar expenses.
2.	 Day Care Treatment: We will cover the Medical 
Expenses incurred in respect of All Day Care Treatments 
of the Insured Person during the Policy Period up to 
the Sum Insured as specified in the Policy Schedule if 
such Day Care treatment requires hospitalization as an 
in‑patient for less than 24 hours.
3.	 Pre-hospitalization Expenses: Medical expenses incurred 
up to 90 days immediately before the insured person is 
hospitalized.
4.	 Post Hospitalization Expenses: 
Medical 
expenses 
incurred up to 180 days immediately after the insured 
person is discharged from the hospital.
5.	 Coverage 
for 
Modern 
Treatments: 
The 
following 
procedures will be covered (wherever medically indicated) 
either as in-patient or as part of day care treatment in 
a hospital up to sum insured (including Pre and Post 
hospitalization expenses) during the policy period;
a)	 Uterine artery Embolization and HIFU
b)	 Balloon Sinuplasty
c)	 Deep Brain Stimulation
d)	 Oral Chemotherapy
e)	 Immunotherapy-Monoclonal Antibody to be given 
as injection
f)	 Intra Vitreal injections
g)	 Robotic surgeries
h)	 Stereotactic radio surgeries
i)	
Bronchical Thermoplasty, 
j)	
Vaporisation of the prostate (Green laser treatment 
or holmium laser treatment)
k)	 IONM-(Intra Operative Neuro Monitoring)
l)	
Stem cell therapy: Hematopoietic stem cells for bone 
marrow transplant for haematological conditions
6.	 AYUSH Treatment: Medical expenses for Inpatient 
Hospitalization incurred on treatment under Ayurveda, 
Yoga and Naturopathy, Unani, Sidha and Homeopathy 
systems of medicines in a AYUSH Hospital is payable up 
to the sum insured.
Note: Claims under Yoga and Naturopathy system of 
treatment will be payable subject to prior approval from 
the company
7.	 Road 
ambulance: 
Subject 
to 
an 
admissible 
hospitalization 
claim, 
road 
ambulance 
expenses 
incurred for the following are payable:-
i.	
for transportation of the insured person by private 
ambulance service to go to hospital when this is 
needed for medical reasons 
or
ii.	
for transportation of the insured person by private 
ambulance service from one hospital to another 
STAR HEALTH AND ALLIED INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED   |   POLICY WORDINGS 
SUPER STAR   |   UIN : SHAHLIP25036V012425   |   POL / SS / V.4 / 2025
6  /   38
hospital for better medical treatment 
or
iii.	 for transportation of the insured person from the 
hospital where treatment is taken to their place of 
residence (if it is in same city) provided the requirement 
of an ambulance to the residence is certified by the 
medical practitioner.
8.	 Air Ambulance: Subject to an admissible hospitalization 
claim, the Insured Person(s) is / are eligible for 
reimbursement of expenses incurred towards the cost 
of air ambulance service up to Rs.5,00,000/- in a policy 
year, if the said service was availed on the advice of 
the treating Medical Practitioner / Hospital. Expenses 
towards Air ambulance service is payable for only from 
the place of first occurrence of the illness / accident to 
the nearest hospital. Such Air ambulance should have 
been duly licensed to operate as such by Competent 
Authorities of the Government/s.
9.	 Organ Donor Expenses: 
In-patient 
hospitalization 
expenses incurred for organ transplantation (including 
Screening expenses) from the Donor to the Recipient 
Insured Person are payable provided the claim for 
transplantation is payable. In addition, the expenses 
incurred by the Donor for the Post Donation Complications 
(if any) for the complications that necessitate a Redo 
Surgery / ICU admission upto 180 days from the date of 
discharge from the hospital are also covered. 
Note: The coverage limit under this benefit is upto the 
sum insured and over and above the sum insured.
10. Home care Treatment: Payable up to the sum insured 
in a policy year, for treatment availed by the Insured 
Person at home, only for the specified conditions 
mentioned below, which in normal course would require 
care and treatment at a hospital but is actually taken at 
home provided that:
a)	 The Medical practitioner advises the Insured person 
to undergo treatment at home
b)	 There is a continuous active line of treatment 
with monitoring of the health status by a medical 
practitioner for each day through the duration of the 
home care treatment
c)	 Daily 
monitoring 
chart 
including 
records 
of 
treatment administered duly signed by the treating 
doctor is maintained
d)	 Insured can avail ‘’Home Care Treatment’’ service 
on cashless / reimbursement basis, if availed from 
the list of our Network service providers given in our 
website ‘’www.starhealth.in’’
List of Conditions covered under Home care treatment:
a)	 Fever and Infectious diseases which can be 
managed as In-patient
b)	 Uncomplicated Urinary tract infections but needing 
Parenteral Antibiotics
c)	 Asthma and COPD -Mild Exacerbations needing 
Home Nebulization
d)	 Acute Gastritis / Gastroenteritis
e) I.V. Chemotherapy [Where advised by the doctor]
f)	 Palliative Cancer care requiring medical assistance
g)	 Acute Vertigo
h)	 Diabetic foot and Cellulitis
i) 
IVDP [Cervical and Lumbar disc diseases]
j)	
Major Surgeries / Arthroplasties needing IV Antibiotics 
Post Discharge 
k)	 Care for Brain and Spinal Injury Cases Post Discharge
l)	
Post CVA Care at Home after Discharge
11.	 Domiciliary Hospitalization: Coverage for medical 
treatment (including AYUSH) for a period exceeding 
three days, for an illness / disease / injury, which in the 
normal course, would require care and treatment at 
a Hospital but, on the advice of the attending Medical 
Practitioner, is taken whilst confined at home under any 
of the following circumstances
1.	
The condition of the patient is such that he / she is 
not in a condition to be removed to a Hospital, or
2.	 The patient takes treatment at home on account of 
non-availability of room in a hospital.
However, this benefit shall not cover Asthma, Bronchitis, 
Chronic Nephritis and Nephritic Syndrome, Diarrhoea 
and all types of Dysenteries including Gastro-enteritis, 
Diabetes Mellitus and Insipidus, Epilepsy, Hypertension, 
Influenza, 
Cough 
and 
Cold, 
all 
Psychiatric 
or 
Psychosomatic Disorders, Pyrexia of unknown origin for 
less than 10 days, Tonsillitis and Upper Respiratory Tract 
infection including Laryngitis and Pharyngitis, Arthritis, 
Gout and Rheumatism. 
12.	 E-Domestic Second Medical Opinion: The Insured 
Person can obtain a Second Medical Opinion from a 
Doctor in the Company’s network of Medical Practitioners 
practicing in India. All the medical records provided by 
the Insured Person will be submitted to the Doctor chosen 
by him / her online and the medical opinion will be made 
available directly to the Insured by the Doctor. To utilize 
this benefit, all medical records should be forwarded to 
the mail-id: e_medicalopinion@starhealth.in or through 
Post / Courier.
Special Conditions: -
• 
This should be specifically requested by the Insured 
Person
•	
This opinion is given based only on the medical 
records submitted without examining the patient
•	
The second opinion should be only for medical 
reasons and not for medico-legal purposes
•	
Any liability due to any errors or omission or 
consequences of any action taken in reliance of the 
STAR HEALTH AND ALLIED INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED   |   POLICY WORDINGS 
SUPER STAR   |   UIN : SHAHLIP25036V012425   |   POL / SS / V.4 / 2025
7  /   38
second opinion provided by the Medical Practitioner 
is outside the scope of this policy
•	
Utilizing this facility alone will not amount to making 
a claim
Note: Medical Records / Documents submitted for utilizing 
this facility will not prejudice the Company’s right to reject a 
claim in terms of policy.
13.	 Premium waiver - During the policy year, if proposer 
who is also an insured is diagnosed (first diagnosis) with 
any of the critical illness specified under Annexure ‑  I (or) 
in case of Death of insured due to Accident, Premium will 
be waived off during renewal for the next one policy year 
and such premium waiver will be given up to the expiring 
sum insured and optional covers (if opted) once in a life 
time of the policy.
Note: 
1. 
In case of floater policy, if the proposer who is also 
insured under the policy is diagnosed with the 
specified critical illness / in case of death of the 
insured due to Accident, the premium waiver will be 
available on the floater policy premium.
2.	 In case of multi-individual policy, if the proposer 
who is also insured under the policy is diagnosed 
with the specified critical illness / in case of death of 
the insured due to Accident, the premium waiver will 
be available on the multi-individual policy premium.
14.	 Cumulative Bonus: The insured person will be eligible 
for cumulative bonus calculated at 50% of sum insured 
for each claim free year and maximum up to 100% of the 
sum insured.
Special Conditions:
a.	 The Cumulative bonus will be calculated on the 
expiring Sum Insured
b.	 If the insured opts to reduce the Sum Insured at the 
subsequent renewal, the limit of indemnity by way 
of such Cumulative bonus will be considered as per 
the reduced sum insured 
c.	 Cumulative bonus will not be reduced unless the 
same is utilized in the event of claim
d.	 During renewal, Cumulative bonus will be reduced 
only to the extent of utilized portion and the unutilized 
Cumulative bonus will be carried forward to the next 
policy year.
e. This benefit is not applicable to policies with Unlimited 
Sum insured.
15.	 Automatic Restoration of Sum Insured: The policy 
provides automatic restoration of sum insured subject 
to the following condition:
•	
Sum Insured will be restored unlimited number of 
times and maximum up to 100% each time, which 
can be utilized for a subsequent hospitalization.
•	
The restoration will trigger immediately upon partial 
/ full utilization of the sum insured, which can be 
utilized for a subsequent hospitalization.
•	
On partial utilization of the Sum Insured, it will be 
restored up to extent of utilization.
•	
On full utilization of the Sum Insured, it will be 
restored to 100%.
•	
The Restored Sum Insured can be used for all 
claims including for modern treatment, but for a 
subsequent hospitalization.
•	
The maximum payable amount for a single claim 
under restoration benefit shall not be more than the 
Sum Insured.
•	
The unutilized restored sum insured cannot be 
carried forward to the next policy year. 
• 
This benefit is not applicable to policies with 
Unlimited Sum insured.
Unlimited Restoration – illustration
If there are 2 insured members with Sum Insured of 10 Lacs 
each, lets understand how restoration benefit will apply to 
each under different circumstances.
 
 
Insured 1 
Insured 2
 
Sum Insured
(in Rs.)
10,00,000
10,00,000
No Claim Bonus 
(NCB)
0
5,00,000
Total Available 
amount
10,00,000
15,00,000 
(Sum Insured 
10 Lac + NCB 
5Lac)
1st 
Claim
1st Claim
5,00,000
5,00,000
Claim paid 
amount
5,00,000
5,00,000
Will the restoration 
kick in?
Yes, Why – Since 
there is partial 
utilization of Sum 
Insured.
5,00,000
(Restored 
Sum Insured)
5,00,000
(Restored 
Sum Insured)
Available amount for next 
claim
10,00,000 
(Restored 
SI 5Lac + 
Balance SI 
5Lac)
15,00,000 
(Restored 
SI 5Lac + 
Balance SI 
5Lac+ NCB 5L)
2nd 
Claim
2nd Claim 
(For Same / 
different illness)
15,00,000
15,00,000
Claim paid 
amount
10,00,000
15,00,000
Will the restoration 
kick in?
Yes, Why – Since 
there is full utilization 
of Sum Insured.
10,00,000 
(Restored 
Sum Insured)
10,00,000 
(Restored 
Sum Insured)
Available amount for next 
claim
10,00,000
(SI is Restored 
up to 100%)
10,00,000 
(SI Restored 
up to 100%)
STAR HEALTH AND ALLIED INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED   |   POLICY WORDINGS 
SUPER STAR   |   UIN : SHAHLIP25036V012425   |   POL / SS / V.4 / 2025
8  /   38
3nd 
Claim
3rd Claim
(For Same / 
different illness)
11,00,000
11,00,000
Claim paid 
amount
10,00,000
10,00,000
Will the restoration 
kick in?
Yes, Why – Since 
there is full utilization 
of Sum Insured.
10,00,000 
(Restored 
Sum Insured)
10,00,000
(Restored 
Sum Insured)
16.	 a)	 Tele-Consultation (audio / video / text) facility: 
Insured can avail tele-consultations (unlimited times) 
by using Star Health Mobile App with
a.	 General Medical Practitioner
b.	 Specialist Medical Practitioner
c.	 Phycologist / Psychiatrist 
d.	 Dietician & Nutritionist
b)	 AI driven Face Scan: Insured can avail, AI-driven 
face scan facility by using Star health mobile app 
to know the vital parameters such as heart rate, 
oxygen saturation, respiration rate up to two times 
per month per insured in a policy year.
Note: The AI-driven face scan facility is a software 
/ AI based assessment and should not be used as 
substitute for professional medical advice. 
17.	 Dental Check-up & Cleaning: Expenses incurred towards 
cost of Consultation & Dental X-ray (IOPA) and scaling 
are payable only for one Insured Person under each 
policy in a policy year, available only on cashless basis.
Note: This facility is available only in 2nd & 3rd policy 
year for those who purchased this policy for the first 
time (as a new policy) with us. 
Incase of multi individual policy each insured can avail 
this benefit once in a year in 2nd & 3rd policy year.
18.	 Value Added Services: Insured can avail discounts on 
the services offered by our network providers on Star 
health mobile application
a.	 Discounts on Pharmacy
b.	 Discounts on Diagnostics
c.	 Discounts on Consultations
19.	 Freeze Your Age: Insured age is locked at entry when 
they are insured for the first time under the policy and 
are continuously covered under subsequent renewals, 
till a claim is incurred under In-patient Treatment / Day 
care treatment / Ayush Treatment under Basic Cover or 
they attain the age of 56 years whichever is earlier.
This benefit will be available only for those insured 
members whose age at the inception of first coverage 
under this policy is upto 50 years.
This benefit shall cease once the insured member 
attains the age of 56 years irrespective of whether 
claim has been made or not. On attaining the age of 
56 years the premium charged will be as per Insured’s 
actual age on the date of renewal and thereafter the 
premium applicable will be as per the insured’s age at 
each subsequent renewal.
E.g. If an Insured is covered under the policy at age 30 years, 
the premium applicable at each renewal will be the same 
as applicable for a 30-year-old, till a claim is incurred in the 
policy. Post the claim is incurred, the premium charged from 
next renewal onwards will be as per Insured’s age on the 
date of such renewal and we will continue to charge as per 
the insured’s age at each subsequent renewal.
Note
1.	
In case of long term policies (tenure >1 year), the 
premium for the entire term will be charged as per 
the insured’s entry age. No additional premium will 
be charged in the middle of the tenure in case of 
claims. However at the time of renewal (in case of a 
claim), the premium will be charged as per the age 
of the insured at such renewal date and thereafter 
the premium applicable will be as per the insured’s 
age at each subsequent renewal.
2. If a floater policy, splits into multiple policies, then we 
will carry forward the locked age at which the floater 
policies were taken by individuals
3.	 In a multi individual policy, the age will unlock only 
for the individuals who claim.
4. In a floater policy, if a claim is incurred for any insured 
member  in the policy then we will unlock the age for 
all the insured members covered under policy.
20.	Star Wellness Program: This program intends to 
promote, incentivize and to reward the Insured Persons’ 
healthy life style through various wellness activities. The 
wellness activities as mentioned below are designed to 
help the Insured person to earn wellness reward points 
which will be tracked and monitored by the Company. 
The wellness points earned by the Insured Person(s) 
under the wellness program, can be utilized to get 
discount in premium during the renewal.
This Wellness Program is enabled and administered 
online through Star Health Mobile Applications.
Note: The Wellness Activities mentioned in the table 
below (from Serial Number 1 to 6) are applicable for 
the Insured person(s) aged 18 years and above only. 
The following table shows the discount on premium 
available under the Wellness Program;
Wellness Points Earned
Discount in Premium
200 to 350 
4%
351 to 600
10%
601 to 750
14%
751 and above
20%
*In case of floater policy the weightage is given as per the 
following table;
STAR HEALTH AND ALLIED INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED   |   POLICY WORDINGS 
SUPER STAR   |   UIN : SHAHLIP25036V012425   |   POL / SS / V.4 / 2025
9  /   38
Family Size
Weightage
Self, Spouse**
1:1
Self, Spouse** and 
Dependent Children
(up to 18 years) 
1:1:0:0:0
Self, Spouse** and 
Dependent Children
(aged above 18 years) 
2:2:1:1:1
**Spouse / Live-in Partner
Note:  In case of two year, three year, four year and five 
year policies, total number of wellness points earned in the 
two year, three year, four year and five year period will be 
divided by two, three, four and five respectively.
Please refer the Illustrations to understand the calculation 
of discount in premium, weightage and the calculation.
The wellness services and activities are categorized as below:
Sr.
No.
Activity
Maximum 
number of 
Wellness Points 
that can be 
earned under 
each activity in 
a policy year
1.
Sign up points for Enrolling to 
Wellness Program
100
2.
Manage and Track Health
a)	 Online Health Risk 
Assessment (HRA)
150
b)	 Preventive Risk Assessment
200
3.
Affinity to Wellness
a) Participating in Walkathon, 
Marathon, Cyclothon and 
similar activities
200
b)	 Membership in a health club 
200
4.
Stay Active – If the Insured 
member achieves the step count 
target on mobile app
250
5.
Sharing ‘Active Life Success 
Story’ through adoption of Star 
Wellness Program 
50
6.
Condition Management Program 
(CMP): Weight Management, 
Diabetes Management, 
Hypertension, De-Stress & Mind 
Body Healing Program.
150
7.
For Submission of Vaccination 
Certificate
Eg: Vaccine for Covid, HPV, 
Pneumoccocnal, Swine Flu (H1N1), 
Hepatitis etc..
20
Sr.
No.
Activity
Maximum 
number of 
Wellness Points 
that can be 
earned under 
each activity in 
a policy year
8.
For Submission of Preventive Eye 
Check-up report
20
9.
For Submission of Preventive 
Dental Check-up report
20
10.
For Submission of Mammography 
& PAP Test (for Women) report
20
11.
For Submission of Prostate specific 
antigen (PSA) test report
(for Male persons aged > 50 yrs)
20
12.
Glaucoma Screening
(for persons aged > 50 yrs) 
20
1.	
Sign up points for Enrolling to Wellness Program: 
Insured person(s) can earn 100 reward points for 
enrolling in Star Wellness Program through Star Health 
Mobile application. 
2.	 Manage and Track Health
a)	 Completion of Health Risk Assessment (HRA): The 
Health Risk Assessment (HRA) questionnaire is an 
online tool for evaluation of health and quality of life 
of the Insured. It helps the Insured to introspect his / 
her personal lifestyle. The Insured can log into his / 
her account on the website www.starhealth.in and 
complete the HRA questionnaire. The Insured can 
undertake this once per policy year. 
On Completion of online HRA questionnaire, the 
Insured earns 150 wellness points.
Note: To get the wellness points mentioned under 
HRA, the Insured has to complete the entire HRA within 
one month from the time he / she started HRA Activity.
b)	 Preventive Risk Assessment: The Insured can also 
earn wellness points by undergoing diagnostic / 
preventive tests during the policy year. These tests 
should include the four mandatory tests mentioned 
below. Insured can take these tests at any diagnostic 
centre at Insured’s own expenses. 
-	
On submission of the test reports, Insured earns 
200 reward points.
Note: These tests reports should be submitted 
together and within 30 days from the date of 
undergoing such Health Check-Up.
List of mandatory tests under Preventive Risk Assessment
1.	
Complete Haemogram Test
2.	 Blood Sugar (Fasting Blood Sugar (FBS) + Postprandial 
(PP) [or] HbA1c)
3. Lipid profile (Total cholesterol, HDL, LDL, Triglycerides, 
Total Cholesterol / HDL Cholesterol Ratio)
4.	 Serum Creatinine
STAR HEALTH AND ALLIED INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED   |   POLICY WORDINGS 
SUPER STAR   |   UIN : SHAHLIP25036V012425   |   POL / SS / V.4 / 2025
10  /   38
3.	 Affinity towards wellness: Insured earns wellness 
reward points for undertaking any of the fitness and 
health related activities as given below. List of Fitness 
Initiatives and Wellness points:
Initiative
Wellness 
Points
a.
Participating in Walkathon, Marathon, 
Cyclothon and similar activities
200
-	
On submission of BIB Number along 
with the details of the entry ticket taken 
to participate in the event and / or
-	
On Achieving 20,000 Step count on 
Star Health Mobile Application 
b.
Membership in a health club (50 points for 
each quarter) - In a Gym / Yoga Centre / 
Zumba Classes / Aerobic Exercise / Sports 
Club / Pilates Classes / Swimming / Tai Chi 
/ Martial Arts / Gymnastics / Dance Classes
200
Note: In case if Insured is not a member of any health 
club, he / she should join into club within 3 months from 
the date of the policy risk commencement date. Insured 
person should submit the health club membership.
4.	 Stay Active: Insured earns wellness reward points on 
achieving the step count target on ‘Star Health Mobile 
application as mentioned below:
Criteria to get reward points
If the number of steps per day are minimum 8,000 or 
above for 16 days in a month, it will be considered as one 
active month and insured will get 20 reward points.
Note:
•	
Incase if Insured achieves 10 active months in a policy 
year, he / she will get 50 additional points as bonus.
•	
First month and last month in each policy year will not 
be taken into consideration for calculation of average 
number of steps per day under Stay Active. 
•	
The mobile app must be downloaded within 30 days 
of the policy risk start date to avail this benefit.
•	
The average step count completed by an Insured 
member would be tracked on ‘Star Mobile Application’. 
5.	 Condition Management Program
(i) Weight Management Program: 
a)	 This Program will help the Insured persons 
with Over Weight and Obesity to manage their 
Body Mass Index (BMI) through the empanelled 
wellness experts who will guide the Insured in 
losing excess weight and maintain their BMI. 
-	
150 wellness points will be awarded in case if 
the results are achieved and maintained as 
mentioned below.
Sr. 
No. 
Name of the 
Ailment
Values to be 
submitted
Criteria to get 
the Wellness 
points
1.
Obesity
(If BMI is 
above 29)
Height & 
Weight
(to calculate 
BMI)
Achieving and 
maintaining 
the BMI 
between 
18 and 29
2.
Overweight 
(If BMI is 
between 25 
and 29)
Height & 
Weight
(to calculate 
BMI)
Reducing 
BMI by two 
points and 
maintaining 
the same BMI 
in the policy 
year
-	
Values (for BMI) shall be submitted for every 
2 months (up to 5 times in each policy year)
b)	 Incase if the Insured is not Overweight / Obese, 
the Insured can submit his / her ‘Active Life 
Success Story’ through adoption of Star Wellness 
Activities with us. On submission of Active Life 
Success Story through adoption of Star Wellness 
Activities, Insured earns 50 wellness points. 
(ii)	Chronic Condition Management Program: 
a)	 This Program will help the Insured suffering from 
Diabetes, Hypertension, Cardiovascular Disease or 
Asthma to track their health through the empanelled 
wellness experts who will guide the insured in 
maintaining / improving the health condition. 
-	
The Insured has to submit the test result 
values for every 3 months maximum up to 
3 times in a policy year.
-	
If the test result values are within + / - 10% 
range of the values given below, for at least 
2 times in a policy year, 150 wellness points 
will be awarded.
-	
These tests reports to be submitted within 
1 month from the date of undergoing the 
Health Check-Up
Sr.
No.
 Name of the 
Ailment
 Test to be 
submitted
Values Criteria to 
get the additional 
Wellness points
1.
Diabetes(Insured 
can submit 
either HbA1c test 
value
(or)
Fasting Blood 
Sugar (FBS) 
Range and 
Postprandial test 
value)
HbA1c
≤ 6.5
Fasting 
Blood 
Sugar (FBS) 
Range and 
Postprandial 
test value
100 to 125 mg / dl
below 160 mg / dl
STAR HEALTH AND ALLIED INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED   |   POLICY WORDINGS 
SUPER STAR   |   UIN : SHAHLIP25036V012425   |   POL / SS / V.4 / 2025
11  /   38
2. 
Hypertension
Measured 
with - BP 
apparatus
Systolic Range - 
110 to 140 mmHg
Diastolic Range - 
70 to 90 mmHg
3.
Cardiovascular 
Disease
LDL 
Cholesterol 
and
Total 
Cholesterol 
/ HDL 
Cholesterol 
Ratio
100 to 159 mg / dl
≤ 4.0
4.
Asthma
PFT 
(Pulmonary 
Function 
Test)
FEV1 (PFC) is 
75%   or more
FEV1 / FVC is 70% or 
more
b)	 In case if the Insured is not suffering from 
Chronic Condition/s (Diabetes, Hypertension, 
Cardiovascular Disease or Asthma) he / she can 
opt for “De-Stress & Mind Body Healing Program”. 
This program helps the Insured to reduce stress 
caused due to internal (self-generated) & external 
factors and increases the ability to handle stress.
-	
 On completion of De-stress & Mind Body 
Healing Program 150 wellness points will be 
awarded.
Note: This is a 10 weeks program which insured 
needs to complete without any break. 
6.	 Reward points for Preventive Care: Insured can earn 
wellness reward points for submitting the following 
health check-up reports once in a policy year which he 
/ she had during the policy year.
a. Submission of Vaccination Certificate/s: Insured can 
earn 20 wellness reward points by submitting the 
Vaccination certificate related to vaccine that he / 
she have had during the policy year. Eg: Vaccine for 
Covid, HPV, Swine Flu (H1N1), Hepatitis etc.
b.	 Submission of Preventive Eye Check-up report: 
Insured can earn 20 wellness reward points for 
submitting Eye Check-up report which includes near 
and far vision (visual equity) and Colour vision test.
c.	 Submission of Preventive Dental Check-up: Insured 
can earn 20 wellness reward points for submitting 
Dental Check-up report which includes screening of 
oral cavity done by a qualified Dentist. 
d.	 Submission of Mammography & PAP Test report: 
Insured can earn 20 wellness reward points for 
submitting x-ray Mammogramgraphy or coloured 
doppler 
mammogram 
for 
preventive 
breast 
screening and PAP smear (biopsy) report.
e. Prostate specific antigen (PSA) test (applicable for 
Males aged > 50 yrs): Insured can earn 20 wellness 
reward points for submitting Prostate specific 
antigen blood report. 
f.	
Glaucoma Screening (for persons aged > 50 yrs): 
Insured can earn 20 wellness reward points by 
submitting reports of Glucoma screening test of 
both eyes including tonometery. (slit lamp test), 
pachymeter test, visual field test, dilated eye test 
and gonioscopy examination.
Terms and conditions applicable for wellness services
•	
Any information provided by the Insured in this 
regard shall be kept confidential.
•	
There will not be any cash redemption against the 
wellness reward points.
•	
Insured should notify and submit relevant documents, 
reports, receipts etc for various wellness activities 
within 1 month of undertaking such activity / test.
•	
For services that are provided through empanelled 
service provider, Star Health is only acting as 
a facilitator; hence would not be liable for any 
incremental costs or the services.
•	
All medical services are being provided by 
empanelled health care service provider. We ensure 
full due diligence before empanelment. However 
Insured should consult his / her doctor before 
availing / taking the medical advices / services. The 
decision to utilize these advices / services is solely at 
Insured person’s discretion.
• 
We reserve the right to remove the wellness reward 
points if found to be achieved in unfair manner.
• 
Star Health, its group entities, or affiliates, their 
respective directors, officers, employees, agents, 
vendors, are not responsible or liable for, any 
actions, claims, demands, losses, damages, costs, 
charges and expenses which a Member claims to 
have suffered, sustained or incurred, by way of and 
/ or on account of the Wellness Program.
•	
Services offered are subject to guidelines issued by 
IRDAI from time to time.
A 51 year old Individual Gopal and his wife Ramya along 
with their two dependent children (aged below 18 yrs) buy 
a Super Star with Sum Insured 10 Lacs, let’s understand how 
they can earn Wellness Points. Gopal has declared that he 
is suffering from Diabetes. Ramya has declared her BMI 
as 27. Gopal and Ramya enrolled under the Star wellness 
program and completed the following wellness activities.
Sr.
No.
Activity
Wellness 
Points 
Earned 
by
Gopal
Wellness 
Points 
Earned 
by
Ramya
1.
Sign up points for Enrolling to 
Wellness Program
100
100
2.
Manage and Track Health
Online Health Risk 
Assessment (HRA)
150
150
Preventive Risk Assessment
200
200
3.
Affinity to Wellness
Participating in Walkathon, 
Marathon, Cyclothon and 
similar activities
200
0
Membership in a health club 
100
150
4.
Stay Active (Wellness points 
based on Step Count)
250
120
STAR HEALTH AND ALLIED INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED   |   POLICY WORDINGS 
SUPER STAR   |   UIN : SHAHLIP25036V012425   |   POL / SS / V.4 / 2025
12  /   38
5.
For Sharing ‘Active Life 
Success Story’ 
50
0
6.
Condition Management 
Program (CMP)
150
150
7.
Submission of Vaccination 
Certificate
20
20
8.
For Submission of Preventive 
Eye Check-up report
20
0
9.
For Submission of Preventive 
Dental Check-up report
0
20
10.
For Submission of 
Mammography & PAP Test 
(for Women) report
0
20
11.
For Submission of Prostate 
specific antigen (PSA) test 
report (for Male persons 
aged > 50 yrs)
20
0
12.
Glaucoma Screening (for 
persons aged > 50 yrs)
20
0
Total Number of Wellness 
Points earned
1280
930
No of wellness points based 
upon weightage - 1:1:0:0
640
(1280X1 / 2)
465
(930X1 / 2)
Total Number of Wellness Points earned by Gopal and 
Ramya = 1105 (640+465)
Based on the no of Wellness Points earned, Gopal & Ramya 
are eligible to get 20% discount on renewal premium
Section III - Optional Covers
The following Optional Covers are available on payment of 
additional premium / on reduction in premium as shown in 
the policy schedule.
Covers under this Section are subject to the terms, conditions, 
waiting periods and exclusions of this Policy.
1.	
Smart Network: If the Insured Person has opted for this 
Optional Cover, the Insured Person shall be entitled for 
a discount of 15% on premium (including the first year 
premium), subject to the following conditions: 
(a)	The 
treatment 
as 
applicable 
under 
In-patient 
Treatment / Daycare Treatment / AYUSH Treatment 
is to be taken in a hospital listed under the “Smart 
Network” available on our website www.starhealth.in
(b)	A co-payment of 15% will be applicable (over and above 
other co-pay, if any) on each and every claim (except 
in case of accident) in case if the treatment is taken in a 
hospital which is outside the “Smart Network” List.
Note
(i)	 The Smart Network list is dynamic. Star Health 
reserves the right to change the list by adding 
or deleting the hospitals at its discretion. You are 
requested to please visit our website www.starhealth.
in to find the updated list.
(ii)	This optional cover will not be available for insured 
persons covered under Zone-C
2.	 Quick Shield - Notwithstanding anything to the contrary 
in the Policy, If Insured Person has PED (Pre‑Existing 
Disease) related to the list of Diseases / illnesses / 
Conditions mentioned below at the time of issuance 
of first Policy with the Company, then by choosing this 
Optional cover, the applicable PED (Pre-Existing Disease) 
waiting period shall be waived off and coverage will be 
available from from 31st day of first purchase of this 
policy under In‑patient / Day Care Treatment.
List of diseases / illnesses / conditions covered under 
this optional cover:
(i)	 Diabetes - Diabetes mellitus is a chronic, progressive 
disease in which impaired insulin production leads 
to high blood glucose (sugar) levels, and without 
good self-management and proper treatment, the 
increased glucose (sugar) in the blood affects and 
damages eve– organ in the body, which causes 
serious health consequences.
(ii)	Hypertension - Hypertension is the term used to 
describe a persistent elevated blood pressure, 
commonly referred to as high blood pressure, and 
if this chronic disease is not treated appropriately, 
is a major risk factor for heart disease, stroke, kidney 
disease and even eye diseases.
(iii)	Asthma - Asthma is a Chronic condition that affects 
the airways (bronchi) of the lungs, causing them to 
constrict (become narrow) when exposed to certain 
triggers which results in the symptoms of wheezing, 
coughing, tight chest and shortness of breath.
(iv)	Hyperlipidemia -Hyperlipidaemia is a chronic disease 
that refers to an elevated level of lipids (fats), including 
cholesterol and triglycerides, in the blood and if not 
treated appropriately, it is a major risk factor for 
increased risks of heart disease, heart attacks, strokes 
and other incidents of disease.
(v)	Coronary Artery Disease with PTCA done prior to 1 year:
a.	 Coronary artery disease is the build-up of lipid-
rich plaque in the arteries that supply oxygen-rich 
blood to the heart. Plaque causes a narrowing or
b.	 blockage that could result in a heart attack.
c. PTCA (Coronary Angioplasty) is defined as 
percutaneous coronary intervention by way of 
balloon angioplasty with or without stenting 
for treatment of the narrowing or blockage of 
minimum 50 % of one or more major coronary 
arteries. The intervention must be determined 
to be medically necessary by a cardiologist and 
supported by a coronary angiogram (CAG)
d.	 Coronary arteries herein refer to left main stem, left 
anterior descending, circumflex and right coronary 
artery.
e.	 Diagnostic 
angiography 
or 
investigation 
procedures without angioplasty / stent insertion 
are excluded from the scope of this definition.
Note
(i)	 Only the Initial waiting period of 30 days is 
applicable for this benefit.
(ii)	Premium for this optional cover will be collected 
for five years, If there is an admissible claim 
within the five years, we will deduct the balance 
premium from the claim amount.
STAR HEALTH AND ALLIED INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED   |   POLICY WORDINGS 
SUPER STAR   |   UIN : SHAHLIP25036V012425   |   POL / SS / V.4 / 2025
13  /   38
3.	 Coverage for Non-medical Items (Consumables): 
Items as per List I will become payable If there is an 
admissible claim under the policy for In-patient / Day 
Care Treatment.
(Exclusion No. 33 - Code Excl 37) as stated under this 
policy shall not apply if insured opts this coverage
4.	 Future Shield: Provides continuity benefit for all waiting 
periods served by the member (a) Initial waiting period, 
(b) Pre-Existing Disease (PED) waiting period, (c) Specific 
Waiting Period and (d) Maternity Waiting Period (if 
maternity option/s is / are opted) to the spouse added in 
future and this will be offered only if the proposed newly 
added spouse age at the time of entry is up to 35 years
Note: Insured can only add his / her newly married 
spouse to the policy.
Insured should submit marriage certificate to add the 
spouse. The spouse can be added anytime during the 
policy tenure or at Renewal.
The newly married spouse can be added only if the 
marriage has happened after taking this optional cover.
Newly Married spouse MUST be added within 120 days 
of the marriage to get the benefits given under Future 
Shield Option.
This optional cover can be opted only by the insured 
covered under individual policy.
If female individual opts this optional cover along with 
maternity expenses option, the claim under maternity is 
payable only if the spouse gets added
5.	 Maternity Expenses:
	
(Option - A) Delivery Expenses (with 24 months waiting 
period) and New Born Cover:
Delivery Expenses: Expenses for a Delivery including 
Delivery by Caesarean section (including pre-natal and 
postnatal expenses) up-to of the limits (including for twins/ 
triplets/ quadruplets) specified in the policy schedule:
Note:
i) 
Benefit under this section is subject to a waiting period 
of 24 months from the date of first commencement 
of Super Star Policy / from the time of opting this 
optional cover (whichever is later) and its continuous 
renewal thereof with the Company.
ii)	 There is no waiting period for subsequent deliveries
iii)	 Maximum up to 4 deliveries are payable after taking this 
optional cover and payable while the policy is in force
iv)	 Pre-hospitalization and Post Hospitalization expenses 
are not covered under this optional cover.
New Born Cover: Hospitalization expenses for treatment 
of new born is covered up to the limits (including for 
twins/ triplets/ quadruplets) specified below incurred 
in a hospital/ nursing home for Any disease, illness or 
accidental injuries are payable from Day 1 of its birth till 
the expiry date of the policy.
Sum Insured (Rs.)
Limit of liability
in a policy year (Rs.)
5,00,000/- to 25,00,000/-
2,00,000/-
50,00,000/-; 1,00,00,000/-; 
Unlimited Sum Insured
5,00,000/-
Note:
i)	
This cover is available only If Delivery Expenses 
Claim is paid under this policy (or) if Mother is 
covered under this policy for a continuous period of 
12 months without break
ii)	 Intimation about the birth of the New Born should 
be given to the company and the coverage will be 
given to the New Born from the first day of its birth.
iii)	 Exclusion 
no.1 
(Code-Excl 
01), 
Exclusion 
no.2 
(Code‑Excl  02), Exclusion no.3 (Code-Excl 03) and 
Exclusion no.20 (Code‑Excl 20) as stated under this 
policy shall not apply for the New Born baby cover.
iv)	 In the subsequent years, the New Born Baby will be 
covered up to the Sum Insured (without any underwriting 
and the entry age criteria), if the policy holder opts the 
coverage for New Born and pays the premium.
v)	 Enhancement of sum insured is subject to underwriters’ 
approval
vi)	 The above mentioned sub-limt will not apply for 
treatment related to congenital internal disease/
defects for the New Born.
(Option - B) Delivery Expenses (with 12 months waiting 
period) and New Born Cover:
Delivery Expenses: Expenses for a Delivery including 
Delivery by Caesarean section (including pre-natal and 
postnatal expenses) up-to of the limits (including for twins/ 
triplets/ quadruplets) specified in the policy schedule:
Note:
i) 
Benefit under this section is subject to a waiting period 
of 12 months from the date of first commencement 
of Super Star Policy / from the time of opting this 
optional cover (whichever is later) and its continuous 
renewal thereof with the Company.
ii)	 There is no waiting period for subsequent deliveries
iii)	 Maximum up to 4 deliveries are payable after taking this 
optional cover and payable while the policy is in force.
iv)	 Pre-hospitalization and Post Hospitalization expenses 
are not covered under this optional cover.
New Born Cover: Hospitalization expenses for treatment 
of new born is covered up to the limits (including for 
twins/ triplets/ quadruplets) specified below incurred 
in a hospital/ nursing home for Any disease, illness or 
accidental injuries are payable from Day 1 of its birth till 
the expiry date of the policy.
Sum Insured (Rs.)
Limit of liability
in a policy year (Rs.)
5,00,000/- to 25,00,000/-
2,00,000/-
50,00,000/-; 1,00,00,000/-; 
Unlimited Sum Insured
5,00,000/-
Note:
i)	
This cover is available only If Delivery Expenses 
Claim is paid under this policy (or) if Mother is 
covered under this policy for a continuous period of 
12 months without break
ii)	 Intimation about the birth of the New Born should 
be given to the company and the coverage will be 
STAR HEALTH AND ALLIED INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED   |   POLICY WORDINGS 
SUPER STAR   |   UIN : SHAHLIP25036V012425   |   POL / SS / V.4 / 2025
14  /   38
given to the New Born from the first day of its birth.
iii)	 Exclusion no.1 (Code-Excl 01), Exclusion no.2 (Code‑Excl 02), 
Exclusion no.3 (Code-Excl 03) and Exclusion no.20 
(Code‑Excl 20) as stated under this policy shall not apply 
for the New Born baby cover.
iv)	 In the subsequent years, the New Born Baby will be 
covered up to the Sum Insured (without any underwriting 
and the entry age criteria), if the policy holder opts the 
coverage for New Born and pays the premium.
v)	 Enhancement of sum insured is subject to underwriters’ 
approval
vi)	 The above mentioned sub-limt will not apply for 
treatment related to congenital internal disease/defects 
for the New Born.
(Option - C) Assisted Reproduction Treatment: The 
Company will reimburse medical expenses incurred on 
Assisted Reproduction Treatment (ART) as per the table 
mentioned below, for sub-fertility subject to:
a) A waiting period of 24 months from the date of first 
commencement of Super Star Policy/ from the time 
of opting this optional cover (whichever is later) and 
its continuous renewal thereof with the Company.
b)	 This cover is available only when both self and 
spouse are covered under this policy for a 
continuous period of 24 months under Individual or 
floater sum insured. 
c)	 Company will pay for one Assisted Reproduction 
Treatment cycle in a policy year.
d) For the purpose of claiming under this benefit, 
in‑patient treatment is not mandatory.
Sum Insured (Rs.)
Limit of liability in a 
policy year (Rs.)
5,00,000/-; 7,50,000/-
1,00,000/-
10,00,000/-; 15,00,000/-; 
20,00,000/-; 25,00,000/-
2,00,000/-
50,00,000/-; 1,00,00,000/-; 
Unlimited Sum Insured
4,00,000/-
The Company shall not be liable to make any 
payments under this policy in respect of any expenses 
incurred by the insured person in connection with or in 
respect of:
1.	
Pre and Post treatment expenses
2.	 Sub-fertility services that are deemed to be 
unproven, experimental or investigational
3.	 Services not in accordance with standards of good 
medical practice and not uniformly recognized and 
professionally endorsed by the general medical 
community at the time it is to be provided.
4.	 Reversal of voluntary sterilization
5.	 Treatment undergone for second or subsequent 
pregnancies except where the child from the first 
delivery / previous deliveries is/are not alive at the 
time of treatment
6. Payment for services rendered to a surrogate
7. Costs associated with cryopreservation and storage 
of sperm, eggs and embryos
8.	 Selective termination of an embryo   
9.	 Services done at unrecognized centre
10.	 Surgery / procedures that enhances fertility like 
Tubal 
Occlusion, 
Bariatric 
Surgery, 
Diagnostic 
Laparoscopy with Ovarian Drilling and such other 
similar surgery / procedures
6.	 Women Care: Pregnant women can buy this policy 
by submitting 12 and 20 week scan reports of their 
pregnancy period, in case if we accept such proposal 
and issued the policy, the New Born will be covered 
immediately after its birth covered till end of the policy 
year (for congenital defects up to the sum insured) up 
to the following limits: 
Sum Insured (Rs.)
Limit of liability
in a policy year (Rs.)
5,00,000/- to 25,00,000/-
2,00,000/-
50,00,000/-; 1,00,00,000/-; 
Unlimited Sum Insured
5,00,000/-
7.	 High-end Diagnostics: The following diagnostics tests 
are payable on OPD basis if required as a part of a 
treatment up to Rs.25,000 in a policy year
-	
Brain Perfusion Imaging
-	
CT guided biopsy
-	
CT urography
-	
Digital Subtraction Angiography(DSA) 
-	
Liver Biopsy
-	
Magnetic Resonance Cholangiography Scan
-	
PET CT
-	
PET MRI
-	
Renogram
Note: Only the Initial waiting period of 30 days is 
applicable for this benefit.
8.	 Personal Accident Cover: If at any time during the 
Period of Insurance, the Insured Person shall sustain any 
bodily injury resulting solely and directly from Accident 
caused by external, violent and visible means then the 
Company will pay as under;
Option A - Accidental Death of Insured Person: If 
following an Accident that causes death of the Insured 
Person within 12 Calendar months from the date of 
Accident, then the Company will pay an amount as 
compensation the Sum Insured mentioned in the 
Schedule
Option B 
- 
Accidental 
Death 
and 
Permanent 
Disablement of the Insured Person: If following an 
Accident which caused permanent impairment of 
the Insured’s mental or physical capabilities, then 
the Company will pay the benefits as provided in the 
“Table of Benefits – B1”, depending upon the degree of 
disablement provided that;
a)	 The disablement occurs within 12 Calendar months 
from the date of the Accident
b) The disablement is confirmed and claimed for, prior 
to the expiry of a period of 60 days since occurrence 
of the disablement
STAR HEALTH AND ALLIED INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED   |   POLICY WORDINGS 
SUPER STAR   |   UIN : SHAHLIP25036V012425   |   POL / SS / V.4 / 2025
15  /   38
Conditions applicable for Personal Accident Cover:
1.	
If the Accident affects any physical function, 
which was already impaired prior to the accident, 
a deduction as per “Table – B2” will be made in 
respect of this prior disablement
2.	 In the event of Permanent Disablement, the Insured 
Person will be under obligation:
a)	 To have himself / herself examined by doctors 
appointed by the Company and the Company 
will pay the costs involved thereof.
b)	 To authorize doctors providing treatments or 
giving expert opinion and any other authority to 
supply the Company any information that may 
be required. If the obligations are not met with 
due to whatsoever reason, the Company may 
be relieved of its liability to pay. 
3.	 This optional cover is applicable for the person 
specifically mentioned in the Schedule
4. Where a claim has been paid during the policy 
period the cover under this optional cover ceases 
until the expiry of the policy for the insure who made 
a claim under this optional cover. However even if 
the sum insured under this section is exhausted by 
way of claim, the coverage under health section will 
continue until expiry of the policy period
5.	 Any claim under health portion will not affect the 
Sum Insured under this optional cover
6. Where there is an admissible claim for Accidental 
Death during the policy period, the health cover will 
continue for the remaining insured persons
7. Where there is an admissible claim for Permanent 
Total Disability during the policy period, the health 
cover would continue until the expiry of the policy 
for all the insured persons covered including the 
person who has made a claim for Permanent Total 
Disability and renewal thereof
Table of Benefits - B1
Benefits
Percentage of 
the Basic Sum 
Insured
1.	
Death
100%
2.	 Permanent Total Disablement
100%
Total and irrevocable loss* of
 
(i)	
Sight of both eyes
100%
(ii)	
Physical separation of 
two entire hands
100%
(iii)	
Physical separation of 
two entire foot
100%
(iv)	 One entire hand and 
one entire foot
100%
(v)	
Sight of one eye and 
loss of one hand
100%
(vi)	 Sight of one eye and 
loss of one entire foot
100%
(vii)	 Use of two hands
100%
(viii)	 Use of two foot
100%
(ix)	
Use of one hand and 
one foot
100%
(x)	
Sight of one eye and use 
of one hand
100%
(xi)	
Sight of one eye and use 
of one foot
100%
Table - B2
Physical function already impaired 
prior to accident
Percentage 
of Sum 
Insured 
Deducted
1
Loss of toes all
All
20
Loss of Great toe
both phalanges
5
Loss of Great toe
one phalanx
2
Other than Great, if 
more than
 
One toe lost, for 
each toe
For each toe
1
2
Loss of hearing 
both ears
Both ears
75
Loss of hearing one 
ear
One ear
30
Physical function already impaired 
prior to accident
Percentage 
of Sum 
Insured 
Deducted
3
Loss of four fingers 
and thumbs of One 
hand
 
40
4
Loss of four fingers
 
35
Loss of thumb both 
phalanges
Both phalanges
25
 
One phalanx
10
5
Loss of index finger 
three phalanges
Three 
phalanges
10
Two phalanges
Two phalanges
8
One phalanx
One phalanx
4
6
Loss of middle 
finger
Three 
phalanges
6
Two phalanges
4
One phalanx
2
7
Loss of ring finger
Three 
phalanges
5
Two phalanges
4
One phalanx
2
STAR HEALTH AND ALLIED INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED   |   POLICY WORDINGS 
SUPER STAR   |   UIN : SHAHLIP25036V012425   |   POL / SS / V.4 / 2025
16  /   38
8
Loss of little finger
Three 
phalanges
4
Two phalanges
3
One phalanx
2
9
Loss of 
metacarpals
First or second
3
Additional 
(third fourth or 
fifth)
2
10
Any other 
Permanent partial 
disablement
 
Percentage 
as assessed 
by the 
Medical 
Board or 
by the 
government 
doctor
Geographical Scope: The cover under this section 
applies World Wide
9.	 Annual Health Check-up: Available up to 1% of Sum 
Insured subject to maximum of Rs.25,000/- in a policy 
year, available from Day 1 of the policy. The tests MUST 
be booked through digital assets (e.g. Mobile App). This 
benefit is available only on cashless basis.
Note:
This annual health check-up limit can also be utilized 
for vaccination expenses
In case of floater policy the limits are applicable per 
policy, in case of Individual / multi-individual policy this 
limit is applicable per each insured person.
10.	 Voluntary Co-payment: In case Voluntary Co-payment 
is opted as mentioned in the Policy Schedule, the Insured 
Person will be liable to bear the specified Co-payment 
percentage (over and above other co-pay, if any) of 
admissible claim amount of each and every claim amount. 
i.	
Voluntary Co-payment once chosen cannot be 
modified mid-term.
ii.	
Voluntary Co-payment if chosen by the Insured 
Person(s) shall be applicable on Section II (1 to 11)
iii.	 Voluntary co-payment will not be available in case 
voluntary deductible has been opted
iv.	 Once opted, the insured can not reduce the 
co‑payment percentage (or) opt out of this optional 
cover.
11. Voluntary Deductible: In case Voluntary Deductible is 
opted as mentioned in the Policy Schedule, the Insured 
Person will be liable to bear the specified Deductible 
amount. 
i.	
Voluntary Deductible will apply on aggregate basis 
for all hospitalisation expenses during the policy 
year which fall under basic cover.
ii.	
The deductible will apply on individual basis in case 
of individual policy and on floater basis in case of 
floater policy. 
iii.	 Voluntary Deductible if chosen by the Insured 
Person(s) shall be applicable on Section II (1 to 11)
iv.	 Voluntary deductible will not be available in case 
voluntary co-payment has been opted
v.	 Once opted, the insured can not reduce the 
voluntary deductible amount (or) opt out of this 
optional cover.
12.	 Room Rent Modification: If the Insured person has 
opted for this optional cover as mentioned in the policy 
schedule, the Insured shall have an option to modify the 
room rent eligibility to Single Private AC Room / Shared 
Room / General Ward.
Note: Associated Medical expenses which vary based 
on the room occupied by the insured person will be 
considered in proportion to the room rent stated 
in the policy schedule or actuals whichever is less. 
Proportionate deductions are not applied in respect of 
the hospitals which do not follow differential billing or for 
those expenses in respect of which differential billing is 
not adopted based on the room rent
13.	 E- International Second Opinion: In case E-International 
Second Option is opted as mentioned in the policy schedule, 
Insured can obtain a Second Medical Opinion from our 
panel of internationally available medical practitioners, The 
Insured Person may choose one of the Medical Practitioners 
out of the 3 choices given by Us / Our Empanelled Service 
Provider. All the medical records provided by the Insured 
Person will be submitted to the Doctor chosen by him / 
her online and the medical opinion will be made available 
directly to the Insured by the Doctor. To utilize this benefit, 
all medical records should be forwarded to the mail-id 
e_medicalopinion@starhealth.in or through Post / Courier.
Note: -
•	
Incase of individual policy the insured can utilize this 
facility once in a policy year.
• 
Incase of floater / multi individual policy each 
insured can utilize this facility once in a policy year.
• 
This should be specifically requested for by the 
Insured Person
•	
This opinion is given based only on the medical 
records submitted without examining the patient,
•	
The second opinion should be only for medical 
reasons and not for medico-legal purposes.
•	
Any liability due to any errors or omission or 
consequences of any action taken in reliance of the 
second opinion provided by the Medical Practitioner 
is outside the scope of this policy.
•	
Utilizing this facility alone will not amount to making 
a claim
Note: Medical Records / Documents submitted for 
utilizing this facility will not prejudice the Company’s 
right to reject a claim in terms of policy.
14.	 Durable Medical Equipment Cover: Incase Durable 
Medical Equipment cover is opted as shown in the 
Schedule, the expenses incurred by Insured towards 
renting or purchase of any of the listed durable medical 
equipment up to a limit of Rs. 5 Lakhs will be payable 
STAR HEALTH AND ALLIED INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED   |   POLICY WORDINGS 
SUPER STAR   |   UIN : SHAHLIP25036V012425   |   POL / SS / V.4 / 2025
17  /   38
once during the life time of the policy, if the same has 
been prescribed by the treating Medical Practitioner 
Post Hospitalization for the same condition for which the 
Hospitalization claim was admissible
List of Durable Medical Equipment Covered under this 
optional Cover:
1.	
CPAP Machine
2.	 Ventilator
3. Wheelchair
4.	 Prosthetic device
5.	 Suction Machine
6. Commode Chairs
7. Infusion pump
8.	 Continuous Passive motion devices in case of Knee 
Replacement
9.	 Oxygen concentrator
Note: Once this limit is exhausted, the cover will cease 
to exist and cannot be opted again upon subsequent 
renewals.
15.	 Compassionate Visit: Incase Compassionate Visit is 
opted as shown in the Schedule, If Insured is admitted 
for life-threatening emergency away from his / her 
usual place of residence recorded in the policy we will 
pay up to Rs.10,000/- per occurrence for an immediate 
family member (other than travel companion) for 
travel towards the place where the hospital is located 
provided if the hospitalization claim is admissible under 
the policy.
16.	 Hospital Cash Benefit: Incase Hospital Cash benefit is 
opted as shown in the Schedule, the Company will pay to 
the Insured Person, Hospital Cash (lump-sum) amount 
as specified in the Policy Schedule for every completed 
24 hours of hospitalization up to the number of days as 
specified in the Policy Schedule, provided the claim is 
admissible under In-patient treatment or Ayush treatment. 
17.	 Reduction of Specified disease / procedure Waiting 
Period: The Insured Person can reduce the Specified 
disease / procedure waiting period from 24 months 
to 12 months. This option is available only for the first 
purchase of this policy and also only upto Sum Insured 
chosen at that time. This option is not available for 
renewal / ported / migrated policies. Offering reduction 
of Specified disease / procedure waiting period is 
subject to Underwriter’s approval.
18.	 Reduction of Pre-Existing Diseases Waiting Period 
(Other than those listed under Quick Shield-if Opted): 
The Insured Person can reduce the Pre-Existing Disease/s 
waiting period from 36 months to 24 months / 12 months. 
This option is available only for the first purchase of this 
policy and also only upto Sum Insured chosen at that time. 
This option is not available for renewal / ported / migrated 
policies. Offering reduction of Pre-Existing Diseases 
waiting period is subject to Underwriter’s approval. 
Note: If the Pre-Existing Disease/s falls under the list of 
specific disease waiting period (Exclusion No. 2 - Code 
Excl 02), the longer among the Pre-Existing Disease and 
specific disease waiting period shall apply.
19.	 Limitless Care: Will cover the Medical Expenses incurred in 
respect of Hospitalization of the Insured Person under In-
Patient / Day Care Treatment of the Insured Person for any 
one claim during the lifetime of the Policy without any limits 
on the Sum Insured subject to the following conditions:
(a)	Once opted, the optional cover has to be opted 
continuously by the Insured Person until any one 
claim is made under this cover.
(b)	Once a claim has been made under this Optional 
Cover, the cover will cease to exist and cannot be 
opted again upon subsequent renewals. 
(c)	Optional Cover 10. Voluntary Co-payment or 
Optional Cover 11. Voluntary Deductible if opted by 
the Insured Person shall be applicable under this 
Optional Cover.
(d)	Following the payment of claim under Limitless 
Care, the Total Sum Insured shall be reduced to zero 
for that Policy Year
(e)	This optional cover shall not be available to policies 
with Unlimited Sum insured
20.	Super Star Bonus (Guaranteed Bonus): If the Insured 
Person has opted for this optional cover, Insured will 
get an additional Cumulative Bonus of 100% of expiring 
or renewed Annual Sum Insured (whichever is lower) 
at the end of each Policy Year irrespective of a claim 
in the Policy Year, provided that the Policy has been 
continuously renewed with the Company subject to the 
conditions mentioned below:
i.	
The Super Star Bonus can be accumulated up to an 
Unlimited Sum Insured.
ii.	
This cover shall not be available to policies with 
Unlimited Sum Insured.
iii.	 In case, the Insured Person opts out of this cover 
at the time of renewal, all the bonus accumulated 
under this will be reduced to zero
21.	 NRI Advantage: If a Non Resident Indian (NRI) / Overseas 
Citizen has opted this optional cover under this policy, 
we will provide a 10% discount on the applicable 
premium provided that the Insured Person(s) -
i.	
Provides declaration upon Policy Issuance and 
subsequent renewals that they are based abroad in 
entirety for the Policy Year 
ii.	
Provides proof of overseas residence for the 
upcoming year upon each renewal to continue 
availing the discount
iii.	 Possesses and provides other relevant identity proof 
documents as mandated for Citizenship of India
iv.	 Has an Indian bank account for premium / claims 
payment.
v.	 If the Insured person ceases to reside outside India, 
then no further discount shall be applicable upon 
renewal. 
STAR HEALTH AND ALLIED INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED   |   POLICY WORDINGS 
SUPER STAR   |   UIN : SHAHLIP25036V012425   |   POL / SS / V.4 / 2025
18  /   38
vi.	 This discount can be availed only for a maximum 
period of five continuous Policy Years and the same 
will be applicable on    a Policy level. All waiting 
periods as per the policy terms and conditions will 
be applicable for the Insured Persons.
vii.	 The coverage is available only for treatments taken 
in India
Note (applicable to Section-III Optional Covers): In 
case if Insured opted optional cover/s which has a 
waiting period, the waiting period will be calculated 
from the date of first commencement of Super Star 
Policy (or) from the time of opting/re-opting this 
optional cover (whichever is later) and its continuous 
renewal thereof with the Company.
List of Benefits which are in addition to the Sum Insured
Basic Cover
Organ Donor Expenses
Cumulative Bonus
Automatic Restoration of Sum Insured
Optional Cover
Personal Accident Cover
Annual Health Check-up
Compassionate Visit
Hospital Cash Benefit
Limitless care 
Super Star Bonus (Guaranteed Bonus)
Maternity Expenses
High-end Diagnostics
Durable Medical Equipment Cover
IV. EXCLUSIONS
S T A N D A R D  E X C L U S I O N S
1.	
Pre-Existing Diseases - Code Excl 01
A.	 Expenses related to the treatment of a pre-existing 
Disease (PED) and its direct complications shall be 
excluded until the expiry of 36 months of continuous 
coverage after the date of inception of the first 
policy with insurer
B.	 In case of enhancement of sum insured the 
exclusion shall apply afresh to the extent of sum 
insured increase.
C.	 If the Insured Person is continuously covered without 
any break as defined under the applicable norms on 
portability stipulated by IRDAI, then waiting period 
for the same would be reduced to the extent of prior 
coverage.
D. Coverage under the policy after the expiry of 36 
months for any pre-existing disease is subject to the 
same being declared at the time of application and 
accepted by Insurer.
2.	 Specified disease / procedure waiting period – 
Code Excl 02
A.	 Expenses related to the treatment of the listed 
Conditions, surgeries / treatments shall be excluded 
until the expiry of 24 months of continuous coverage 
after the date of inception of the first policy with 
us. This exclusion shall not be applicable for claims 
arising due to an accident. 
B.	 In case of enhancement of sum insured the 
exclusion shall apply afresh to the extent of sum 
insured increase.
C. If any of the specified disease / procedure falls 
under the waiting period specified for pre-Existing 
diseases, then the longer of the two waiting periods 
shall apply.
D.	 The waiting period for listed conditions shall apply 
even if contracted after the policy or declared and 
accepted without a specific exclusion.
E.	 If the Insured Person is continuously covered without 
any break as defined under the applicable norms on 
portability stipulated by IRDAI, then waiting period 
for the same would be reduced to the extent of prior 
coverage.
F. List of specific diseases / procedures
i.	
Treatment of Cataract and diseases of the 
anterior and posterior chamber of the Eye, 
Diseases of ENT, Diseases related to Thyroid, 
Benign diseases of the breast.
ii.	
Subcutaneous Benign Lumps, Sebaceous cyst, 
Dermoid cyst, Mucous cyst lip / cheek, Carpal 
Tunnel 
Syndrome, 
Trigger 
Finger, 
Lipoma, 
Neurofibroma, Fibroadenoma, Ganglion and 
similar pathology
iii.	 All 
treatments 
(Conservative, 
Operative 
treatment) and all types of intervention for 
Diseases related to Tendon, Ligament, Fascia, 
Bones and Joint Including Arthroscopy and 
Arthroplasty / Joint Replacement [other than 
caused by accident].
iv.	 All types of treatment for Degenerative disc 
and Vertebral diseases including Replacement 
of bones and joints and Degenerative diseases 
of the Musculo-skeletal system, Prolapse of 
Intervertebral Disc (other than caused by 
accident)
v.	 All treatments (conservative, 
interventional, 
laparoscopic and open) related to Hepato-
pancreato-biliary 
diseases 
including 
Gall 
bladder 
and 
Pancreatic 
calculi. 
All 
types 
of 
management 
for 
Kidney 
calculi 
and 
Genitourinary tract calculi.
vi.	 All types of Hernia
vii.	 Desmoid Tumor, Umbilical Granuloma, Umbilical 
STAR HEALTH AND ALLIED INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED   |   POLICY WORDINGS 
SUPER STAR   |   UIN : SHAHLIP25036V012425   |   POL / SS / V.4 / 2025
19  /   38
Sinus, Umbilical Fistula
viii.	All treatments (conservative, interventional, 
laparoscopic and open) related to all Diseases 
of Cervix, Uterus, Fallopian tubes, Ovaries, Uterine 
Bleeding, Pelvic Inflammatory Diseases
ix.	 All Diseases of Prostate, Stricture Urethra, all 
Obstructive Uropathies
x.	
Benign Tumours of Epididymis, Spermatocele, 
Varicocele, Hydrocele
xi.	 Fistula, Fissure in Ano, Hemorrhoids, Pilonidal 
Sinus 
and 
Fistula, 
Rectal 
Prolapse, 
Stress 
Incontinence
xii.	 Varicose veins and Varicose ulcers
xiii.	All types of transplant and related surgeries.
xiv.	Congenital Internal disease / defect (except for 
New Born Cover - Section (III) (5) (Option A and 
Option B )
3.	 30-day waiting period – Code Excl 03 (Not Applicable 
for Accidents)
A.	 Expenses related to the treatment of any illness 
within 30 days from the first policy commencement 
date shall be excluded except claims arising due to 
an accident, provided the same are covered
B.	 This exclusion shall not, however, apply if the Insured 
Person has Continuous Coverage for more than 
twelve months
C.	 The 
within 
referred 
waiting 
period 
is 
made 
applicable to the enhanced sum insured in the 
event of granting higher sum insured subsequently
4.	 Investigation & Evaluation – Code Excl 04
A.	 Expenses related to any admission primarily for 
diagnostics and evaluation purposes only are 
excluded
B.	 Any diagnostic expenses which are not related or not 
incidental to the current diagnosis and treatment 
are excluded
5.	
Rest Cure, rehabilitation and respite care – Code Excl 05: 
Expenses related to any admission primarily for 
enforced bed rest and not for receiving treatment. This 
also includes:
i.	
Custodial care either at home or in a nursing facility 
for personal care such as help with activities of daily 
living such as bathing, dressing, moving around either 
by skilled nurses or assistant or nonskilled persons
ii.	
Any services for people who are terminally ill to address 
physical, social, emotional and spiritual needs
6.	 Obesity / Weight Control – Code Excl 06: Expenses 
related to the surgical treatment of obesity that does 
not fulfil all the below conditions;
A.	 Surgery to be conducted is upon the advice of the 
Doctor
B.	 The surgery / Procedure conducted should be 
supported by clinical protocols
C.	 The member has to be 18 years of age or older and
D.	 Body Mass Index(BMI);
1.	
greater than or equal to 40 or
2.	 greater than or equal to 35 in conjunction with any 
of the following severe co-morbidities following 
failure of less invasive methods of weightloss:
a.	 Obesity-related cardiomyopathy
b.	 Coronary heart disease
c.	 Severe Sleep Apnea
d.	 Uncontrolled Type2Diabetes	
7.	 Change-of-Gender treatments – Code Excl 07: Expenses 
related to any treatment, including surgical management, 
to change characteristics of the body to those of the 
opposite sex.
8.	 Cosmetic or plastic Surgery – Code Excl 08: Expenses for 
cosmetic or plastic surgery or any treatment to change 
appearance unless for reconstruction following an Accident, 
Burn(s) or Cancer or as part of medically necessary 
treatment to remove a direct and immediate health risk to 
the insured. For this to be considered a medical necessity, it 
must be certified by the attending Medical Practitioner.
9.	 Hazardous or Adventure sports – Code Excl 09: Expenses 
related to any treatment necessitated due to participation 
as a professional in hazardous or adventure sports, 
including but not limited to, para-jumping, rock climbing, 
mountaineering, rafting, motor racing, horse racing or 
scuba diving, hand gliding, sky diving, deep-sea diving.
10.	 Breach of law – Code Excl 10: Expenses for treatment 
directly arising from or consequent upon any Insured 
Person committing or attempting to commit a breach 
of law with criminal intent.
11.	 Excluded Providers – Code Excl 11: Expenses incurred 
towards treatment in any hospital or by any Medical 
Practitioner or any other provider specifically excluded 
by the Insurer and disclosed in its website / notified to 
the policyholders are not admissible. However, in case 
of life threatening situations or following an accident, 
expenses up to the stage of stabilization are payable 
but not the complete claim.
12.	 Treatment for Alcoholism, drug or substance abuse or 
any addictive condition and consequences thereof – 
Code Excl 12
13.	 Treatments received in health hydros, nature cure 
clinics, spas or similar establishments or private 
beds registered as a nursing home attached to such 
establishments or where admission is arranged wholly 
or partly for domestic reasons – Code Excl 13
14.	 Dietary supplements and substances that can be 
purchased 
without 
prescription, 
including 
but 
not 
limited to Vitamins, minerals and organic substances 
unless prescribed by a medical practitioner as part of 
hospitalization claim or day care procedure – Code Excl 14
15.	 Refractive Error – Code Excl 15: Expenses related to the 
treatment for correction of eyesight due to refractive 
error less than 7.5 dioptres.
16.	 Unproven Treatments – Code Excl 16: Expenses related 
to any unproven treatment, services and supplies 
STAR HEALTH AND ALLIED INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED   |   POLICY WORDINGS 
SUPER STAR   |   UIN : SHAHLIP25036V012425   |   POL / SS / V.4 / 2025
20  /   38
for or in connection with any treatment. Unproven 
treatments are treatments, procedures or supplies that 
lack significant medical documentation to support their 
effectiveness.
17.	 Sterility and Infertility – Code Excl 17 (Except to 
the extent covered under Section III (5) Option C): 
Expenses related to sterility and infertility. 
This includes;
a.	 Any type of contraception, sterilization
b.	 Assisted Reproduction services including artificial 
insemination 
and 
advanced 
reproductive 
technologies such as IVF, ZIFT, GIFT, ICSI
c.	 Gestational Surrogacy
d.	 Reversal of sterilization
18.	 Maternity – Code Excl 18 (Except to the extent covered 
under Section III (5) Option – A & B):
i.	
Medical treatment expenses traceable to childbirth 
(including complicated deliveries and caesarean 
sections incurred during hospitalization) except 
ectopic pregnancy;
ii.	
Expenses towards miscarriage (unless due to 
an accident) and lawful medical termination of 
pregnancy during the policy period
S P E C I F I C  E X C L U S I O N S
19.	 Circumcision (unless necessary for treatment of a disease 
not excluded under this policy or necessitated due to 
an accident), Preputioplasty, Frenuloplasty, Preputial 
Dilatation and Removal of SMEGMA - Code  Excl 19
20.	Congenital External Condition / Defects / Anomalies - 
Code  Excl 20 (Except to the extent covered under 
Section III (5) (Option – A & B) and (6) )
21.	 Convalescence, general debility, run-down condition, 
Nutritional deficiency states - Code Excl 21
22.	Intentional self -injury - Code Excl 22
23.	Injury / disease caused by or arising from or attributable 
to war, invasion, act of foreign enemy, warlike operations 
(whether war be declared or not) - Code Excl 24
24.	Injury or disease caused by or contributed to by nuclear 
weapons / materials - Code Excl 25
25.	Expenses incurred on Enhanced External Counter 
Pulsation Therapy and related therapies, Chelation 
therapy, Hyperbaric Oxygen Therapy, Rotational Field 
Quantum Magnetic Resonance Therapy, VAX-D, Low 
level laser therapy, Photodynamic therapy and such 
other therapies - Code Excl 26
26.	Unconventional, Untested, Experimental therapies - 
Code Excl 27
27.	 Autologous 
derived 
Stromal 
vascular 
fraction, 
Chondrocyte Implantation, Procedures using Platelet 
Rich plasma and Intra articular injection therapy - 
Code Excl 28
28.	Biologicals, except when administered as an in-patient, 
when clinically indicated and hospitalization warranted - 
Code Excl 29
29.	Inoculation or Vaccination (except for post–bite 
treatment and for medical treatment for therapeutic 
reasons) - Code Excl 31
30.	Hospital registration charges, admission charges, 
record charges, telephone charges and such other 
charges - Code Excl 34
31.	 Cost of spectacles and contact lens, hearing aids, 
Cochlear implants and procedures, walkers and 
crutches, 
wheel 
chairs, 
CPAP, 
BIPAP, 
Continuous 
Ambulatory Peritoneal Dialysis, infusion pump and such 
other similar aids - Code Excl 35
32.	Any hospitalizations which are not Medically Necessary / 
does not warrant hospitalization – Code Excl 36
33.	Other excluded expenses as detailed in the website 
www.starhealth.in - Code Excl 37
34.	Existing disease/s, disclosed by the insured and 
mentioned in the policy schedule under Permanent 
Exclusion (based on insured’s consent) - Code Excl 38
V. CONDITIONS
S T A N D A R D  C O N D I T I O N S
1.	
Disclosure of Information: The policy shall be void 
and all premium paid thereon shall be forfeited to 
the Company in the event of misrepresentation, mis 
description or non-disclosure of any material fact by 
the policy holder.
2.	 Claim Settlement
A.	 Condition Precedent to Admission of Liability: The 
terms and conditions of the policy must be fulfilled 
by the Insured Person for the Company to make any 
payment for claim(s) arising under the policy
B.	 For Cashless Treatment:
a.	 For 
assistance 
call 
24 
hours 
help-line 
044‑69006900 or Toll Free No.1800 425 2255, 
Senior Citizens may call at 044 40020888
b.	 Inform the ID number for easy reference
c.	 On admission in the hospital, produce the ID 
Card issued by the Company at the Hospital 
Helpdesk
d.	 Obtain the Pre-authorisation Form from the 
Hospital Help Desk, complete the Patient 
Information and resubmit to the Hospital Help 
STAR HEALTH AND ALLIED INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED   |   POLICY WORDINGS 
SUPER STAR   |   UIN : SHAHLIP25036V012425   |   POL / SS / V.4 / 2025
21  /   38
Desk. 
e.	 The 
Treating 
Doctor 
will 
complete 
the 
hospitalisation / treatment information and the 
hospital will fill up expected cost of treatment. 
This form is submitted to the Company
f.	
The Company will process the request and call 
for additional documents / clarifications if the 
information furnished is inadequate.
g.	 Once all the details are furnished, the Company 
will process the request as per the terms and 
conditions as well as the exclusions therein and 
either approve or reject the request based on 
the merits.
h.	 In case of emergency hospitalization information 
to be given within 24 hours after  hospitalization
i.	
Cashless facility can be availed only in networked 
Hospitals. For details of Networked Hospitals, the 
Insured may visit www.starhealth.in or contact 
the nearest branch
j.	
KYC (Identity proof with Address) of the proposer, 
as per AMLGuidelines
k.	 In non-network hospitals payment must be 
made up-front and then reimbursement will be 
effected on submission of documents.    
Note: The Company reserves the right to call for 
additional documents wherever required. 
Denial of a Pre-authorization request is in no way to be 
construed as denial of treatment or denial of coverage. 
The Insured Person can go ahead with the treatment, 
settle the hospital bills and submit the claim for a 
possible reimbursement.
C.	 For 
Reimbursement 
claims: 
Time 
limit 
for 
submission of
Sl.No.
Type of Claim
Prescribed time limit
1
Reimbursement 
of hospitalization, 
day care and pre 
hospitalization 
expenses 
Claim must be filed 
within 15 days from 
the date of discharge 
from the Hospital. 
2
Reimbursement of 
Post hospitalization
within 15 days after 
completion of 
180 days from the 
date of discharge 
from hospital
D.	 Notification of Claim: Upon the happening of the 
event, notice with full particulars shall be sent to 
the Company within 24 hours from the date of 
occurrence of the event irrespective of whether the 
event is likely to give rise to a claim under the policy 
or not. 
Note: Conditions C and D are precedent to admission 
of liability under the policy. However the Company 
will examine and relax the time limit mentioned in 
these conditions depending upon the merits of the 
case.
E.	 Documents to be submitted for Reimbursement: 
The reimbursement claim is to be supported with 
the following documents and submitted within the 
prescribed time limit.
a.	 Duly completed claim form, and
b.	 Pre Admission investigations and treatment 
papers.
c.	 Discharge Summary from the hospital  
d.	 Cash receipts from hospital, chemists
e.	 Cash receipts and reports for tests done 
f.	
Receipts from doctors, surgeons, anesthetist
g. Certificate from the attending doctor regarding 
the diagnosis.
h.	 Copy of PAN card
i.	
KYC (Identity proof with Address) of the proposer, 
as  per AML Guidelines
j.	
NEFT documents viz., Customer name, Bank 
Account No., Name of the Bank, IFSC code
k.	 CKYC No. of the proposer (if available)
Note: 
For 
assistance 
call 
24 
hours 
helpline 
044‑69006900 or Toll Free No.: - 1800 425 2255, 
Senior Citizens may call at 044 40020888
3.	 Complete Discharge: Any payment to the policyholder, 
Insured Person or his/ her nominees or his/ her legal 
representative or assignee or to the Hospital, as the 
case may be, for any benefit under the policy shall be 
a valid discharge towards payment of claim by the 
Company to the extent of that amount for the particular 
claim
4. 	 Multiple Policies
STAR HEALTH AND ALLIED INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED   |   POLICY WORDINGS 
SUPER STAR   |   UIN : SHAHLIP25036V012425   |   POL / SS / V.4 / 2025
22  /   38
i.	
ln case of multiple policies taken by an Insured 
Person during a period from one or more insurers to 
indemnify treatment costs, the Insured Person shall 
have the right to require a settlement of his/her 
claim in terms of any of his/her policies. ln all such 
cases the insurer chosen by the Insured Person shall 
be obliged to settle the claim as long as the claim is 
within the limits of and according to the terms of the 
chosen policy
ii.	
lnsured person having multiple policies shall also 
have the right to prefer claims under this policy for 
the amounts disallowed under any other policy / 
policies even if the Sum Insured is not exhausted. 
Then the insurer shall independently settle the claim 
subject to the terms and conditions of this policy
iii.	 If the amount to be claimed exceeds the Sum 
Insured under a single policy, the Insured Person 
shall have the right to choose insurer from whom 
he/she wants to claim the balance amount
iv. Where an Insured Person has policies from more 
than one Insurer to cover the same risk on indemnity 
basis, the Insured Person shall only be indemnified 
the treatment costs in accordance with the terms 
and conditions of the chosen policy
5.	 Fraud: lf any claim made by the Insured Person, is in 
any respect fraudulent, or if any false statement, or 
declaration is made or used in support thereof, or if any 
fraudulent means or devices are used by the Insured 
Person or anyone acting on his/her behalf to obtain any 
benefit under this policy, all benefits under this policy 
and the premium paid shall be forfeited.
	
Any amount already paid against claims made under 
this policy but which are found fraudulent later shall 
be repaid by all recipient(s)/policyholder(s), who has 
made that particular claim, who shall be jointly and 
severally liable for such repayment to the insurer.
	
For the purpose of this clause, the expression “fraud” 
means any of the following acts committed by the 
Insured Person or by his agent or the hospital/doctor/
any other party acting on behalf of the Insured Person, 
with intent to deceive the insurer or to induce the insurer 
to issue an insurance policy:
a)	 the suggestion, as a fact of that which is not true 
and which the insured person does not believe to be 
true;
b)	 the active concealment of a fact by the Insured 
Person having knowledge or belief of the fact;
c) any other act fitted to deceive; and
d)	 any such act or omission as the law specially 
declares to be fraudulent
The Company shall not repudiate the claim and / 
or forfeit the policy benefits on the ground of Fraud, 
if the Insured Person / beneficiary can prove that the 
misstatement was true to the best of his knowledge and 
there was no deliberate intention to suppress the fact 
or that such misstatement of or suppression of material 
fact are within the knowledge of the insurer.
6.	 Cancellation
i.	
The Policyholder may cancel his policy anytime 
during the term by giving 7 days written notice.  In 
such an event, The Company shall
a.	 refund proportionate premium for unexpired policy 
period, for policy term upto one year    and there is 
no claim (s) made during the policy period.
b.	 refund premium for the unexpired policy period, in 
respect of policies with policy term more     than 1 
year and risk coverage for such policy years has not 
commenced
ii.	
The Company may cancel the policy at any time 
on grounds of misrepresentation, non-disclosure 
of material facts, fraud by the Insured Person by 
giving 15 days’ written notice. There would be no 
refund of premium on cancellation on grounds of 
misrepresentation, non-disclosure of material facts 
or fraud
Note: Incase of long term policies the refund will be 
given after adjusting the long term discount availed by 
the insured/ policyholder.
7.	 Migration: In case of migration of one policy to another 
with the same insurer, the Policyholder (including all 
members under family cover and group insurance 
policies) can transfer the credits gained to the extent of 
the Sum Insured, No Claim Bonus, Specific Waiting Periods, 
Waiting period for Pre-Existing Diseases, Moratorium 
period etc. in the previous policy to the migrated policy.
8.	 Portability: 
A.	 The Policyholder has the choice to port his / her 
policy from one Insurer to another by applying to 
such Insurer to port the entire policy along with all the 
members of the family, if any, at least 30 days before, 
but not earlier than 60 days from the policy renewal 
date as per IRDAI guidelines related to portability. 
B.	 The Policyholder is entitled to transfer the credits 
gained to the extent of the Sum Insured, No Claim 
Bonus, Specific Waiting Periods, Waiting period for 
Pre-Existing Diseases, Moratorium period etc. from 
the existing Insurer to the Acquiring Insurer in the 
previous policy.
9.	 Renewal of policy: The policy shall be renewable provided 
the product is not withdrawn, except in case of established 
fraud or non-disclosure or misrepresentation by the 
Policyholder. If the product is withdrawn, the policyholder 
shall be provided with suitable options to migrate as per 
the procedure stated under “withdrawal clause”
STAR HEALTH AND ALLIED INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED   |   POLICY WORDINGS 
SUPER STAR   |   UIN : SHAHLIP25036V012425   |   POL / SS / V.4 / 2025
23  /   38
i)	
At the end of the policy period, the policy shall 
terminate and can be renewed within the Grace 
Period of 30 days.
ii) While coverage is not available during the Grace 
Period, if the policy is renewed during the Grace 
Period, all the credits (Sum Insured, No Claim Bonus, 
Specific Waiting Periods, Waiting period for Pre-
Existing Diseases, Moratorium period etc.) accrued 
under the policy shall be protected.
10.	 Withdrawal of policy
In the likelihood of this product being withdrawn in 
future, the Company will intimate the Policyholder about 
the same 90 days prior to expiry of the policy.
i.	
A one-time option to renew the existing product, 
if renewal falls within the 90 days from the date of 
withdrawal of the product, or
ii.	
Policyholder will have the option to migrate to 
similar health insurance product available with the 
Company at the time of renewal. Policyholder can 
transfer the credits gained (to the extent of Sum 
Insured, No Claim Bonus, Specific Waiting Periods, 
Waiting period for Pre-Existing Diseases, Moratorium 
period etc.) in the previous policy to the migrated 
policy, provided the policy has been maintained 
without a break
11.	 Moratorium 
Period: 
After 
completion 
of 
sixty 
continuous months of coverage (including portability 
and migration) in health insurance policy, no policy 
and claim shall be contestable by the insurer on 
grounds of non-disclosure, misrepresentation, except 
on grounds of established fraud. This period of sixty 
continuous months is called as moratorium period. 
The moratorium would be applicable for the sums 
insured of the first policy. Wherever, the sum insured 
is enhanced, completion of sixty continuous months 
would be applicable from the date of enhancement of 
sums insured only on the enhanced limits.
12.	 Premium Payment in Instalments: lf the Policyholder 
has opted for Payment of Premium on an installment 
basis i.e. Half Yearly or Quarterly or Monthly or Annual 
or as mentioned in the Policy Schedule/Certificate 
of Insurance, the following conditions shall apply 
(notwithstanding any terms contrary elsewhere in the 
policy)
i.	
For monthly instalment option: Grace Period of 15 
days would be given to pay the instalment premium 
due for the policy.
ii.	
For Quarterly and Half yearly instalment option: 
Grace Period of 30 days would be given to pay the 
instalment premium due for the policy.
iii.	 The Policyholder will get the accrued continuity 
benefit in respect of the (Sum Insured, No Claim 
Bonus, Specific Waiting Periods, Waiting period for 
Pre-Existing Diseases, Moratorium period etc.) in the 
event of payment of premium within the stipulated 
Grace Period.
iv.	 No interest will be charged lf the installment 
premium is not paid on due date.
v.	 ln case of installment premium due not received 
within the grace period, the policy will get cancelled.
vi.	 ln the event of a claim, all subsequent premium 
installments shall immediately become due and 
payable.
vii.	 The company has the right to recover and deduct 
all the pending installments from the claim amount 
due under the policy.
viii.	For premium paid in instalments during the policy 
period, coverage is available during the grace 
period also
13.	 Possibility of Revision of Terms of the Policy including 
the Premium Rates: The Company may revise or modify 
the terms of the policy including the premium rates as 
per the extant Guidelines. The insured person shall be 
notified thirty days before the changes are effected.
14.	 Free Look Period: The Free Look Period shall be applicable 
on new individual health insurance policies and not on 
renewals or at the time of porting/migrating the policy.
The Policyholder shall be allowed free look period of 
thirty days from date of receipt of the policy document 
whether electronically or otherwise to review the terms 
and conditions of the policy.  If the Policyholder is not 
satisfied with any of the terms and conditions and has 
not made any claim, the Policyholder has the option to 
cancel his/her policy. This option is available in case of 
policies with a term of one year or more.
The Policyholder shall be entitled to a refund of 
the premium paid subject only to a deduction of a 
proportionate risk premium for the period of cover and 
the expenses, if any incurred by the Insurer on medical 
examination of the proposer and stamp duty charges
15.	 Redressal of Grievance: Incase of any grievance the 
insured person may contact the Company through
Website		
:	 www.starhealth.in
E-mail	
	
:	 gro@starhealth.in, grievances@starhealth.in
Ph. No.	
	
: 044-69006900
 
 
 
 Senior Citizens may call at 044-69007500
Courier/Post	 : 4th Floor, Balaji Complex, No.15, Whites Lane, 
Whites Road, Royapettah, Chennai-600014
lnsured person may also approach the grievance cell 
at any of the company’s branches with the details 
of grievance. If lnsured person is not satisfied with 
the redressal of grievance through one of the above 
methods, insured person may contact the grievance 
officer at  044-43664600.
For updated details of grievance officer, kindly refer the link
https://www.starhealth.in/grievance-redressal
STAR HEALTH AND ALLIED INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED   |   POLICY WORDINGS 
SUPER STAR   |   UIN : SHAHLIP25036V012425   |   POL / SS / V.4 / 2025
24  /   38
lf lnsured person is not satisfied with the redressal of 
grievance through above methods, the insured  person 
may also approach the office of lnsurance Ombudsman 
of the respective area/region for redressal of grievance 
as per lnsurance Ombudsman Rules 2017, as amended 
from time to time.
Grievance may also be lodged at IRDAI lntegrated Grievance 
Management System - https:// bimabharosa.irdai.gov.in/
16.	 Nomination: The policyholder is required at the 
inception of the policy to make a nomination for the 
purpose of payment of claims under the policy in 
the event of death of the policyholder. Any change of 
nomination shall be communicated to the company in 
writing and such change shall be effective only when an 
endorsement on the policy is made. ln the event of death 
of the policyholder, the Company will pay the nominee 
{as named in the Policy Schedule/Policy Certificate/
Endorsement (if any)} and in case there is no subsisting 
nominee, to the legal heirs or legal representatives of 
the policyholder whose discharge shall be treated as 
full and final discharge of its liability under the policy.
S P E C I F I C  C O N D I T I O N S
17.	 The Insured Person/s shall obtain and furnish the 
Company with all original bills, receipts and other 
documents upon which a claim is based and shall also 
give the Company such additional information and 
assistance as the Company may require in dealing with 
the claim.
18.	 All claims under this policy shall be payable in Indian 
currency
19.	 The premium under this policy shall be payable in 
advance. No receipt of premium shall be valid except 
on the official form of the company signed by a duly 
authorized official of the company. The due payment of 
premium and the observance of fulfillment of the terms, 
provision, conditions and endorsements of this policy by 
the Insured Person/s, in so far as they relate to anything 
to be done or complied with by the Insured Person/s, shall 
be a condition precedent to any liability of the Company 
to make any payment under this policy. No waiver of any 
terms, provisions, conditions, and endorsements of this 
policy shall be valid unless made in writing and signed 
by an authorized official of the Company. 
20.	Any medical practitioner authorized by the Company 
shall be allowed to examine the Insured Person in case 
of any alleged injury or diseases requiring Hospitalization 
when and as often as the same may reasonably be 
required on behalf of the Company at Company’s cost.
21.	 Midterm Inclusion of Newly Married Spouse, Legally 
adopted child and New Born baby is Permissible on 
payment of proportionate premium subject to the 
following:
(i)	 The cover for new born commences from 91st day of 
its birth
(ii) Waiting periods as stated in the policy will be 
applicable from the date of inclusion of such newly 
married spouse, new born baby, legally adopted child
(iii)	Such midterm inclusion will be subject to underwriter’s 
approval
22.	 Notice and communication: Any notice, direction or 
instruction given under this Policy shall be in writing and 
delivered by hand, post or email to  Star Health and Allied 
Insurance Company Limited, No 1 New Tank Street, Vallurvar 
Kottam High Road Nungambakkam Chennai ‑ 600034, Toll 
Free Fax No. 1800 425 5522, E-Mail support@starhealth.in.
Notice and instructions will be deemed served 7 days 
after posting or immediately upon receipt in the case of 
hand delivery or e-mail.
23.	Territorial Limit: All investigations / treatments under 
this policy shall have to be taken in India.
24.	Automatic Expiry: The insurance under this policy with 
respect to each relevant Insured Person policy shall 
expire immediately on the earlier of the following events
 
Upon the death of the Insured Person This means that, 
the cover for the surviving members of the family will 
continue, subject to other terms of the policy.
25.	Policy disputes: Any dispute concerning the interpretation 
of the terms, conditions, limitations and / or exclusions 
contained herein is understood and agreed to by both 
the Insured and the Company to be subject to Indian Law.
26.	Excluded Hospitals (providers): Insured can refer the 
company website using the following link to get the 
list of excluded hospitals. https://www.starhealth.in/
lookup/hospital/#excluded-hospital
27.	 Revision of Basic Sum Insured: is permissible only at 
the time of renewal, subject to underwriter’s approval. 
If the policy is renewed for enhanced sum insured, then 
Exclusion Code- Excl 01, Exclusion Code- Excl 02 and 
Exclusion Code- Excl 03 will apply afresh to this enhanced 
sum insured (that is for the difference between the 
expiring basic sum insured and renewed basic sum 
insured) from the effective date of such enhancement.
28. Relief under Section 80-D: Insured Person is eligible for 
relief under Section 80-D of the IT Act in respect of the 
premium paid by any mode other than cash
29.	Important Note
a) 
Where the policy is issued for more than 1 year, the 
Basic Sum Insured including sublimits, cumulative 
bonus (if applicable), automatic restoration 
benefit (if applicable) is for each of the year, 
without any carry over benefit thereof. The said 
benefits / covers available for the 2nd or 3rd or 4th 
or 5th year cannot be utilized in the 1st year itself. 
The terms, conditions and exceptions that appear 
in the Policy or in any Endorsement are part of the 
contract, must be complied with and applies to 
each policy year
STAR HEALTH AND ALLIED INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED   |   POLICY WORDINGS 
SUPER STAR   |   UIN : SHAHLIP25036V012425   |   POL / SS / V.4 / 2025
25  /   38
b) 
Where the policy is issued on floater basis, the basic 
sum insured cumulative bonus and other related 
benefits floats amongst the insured persons 
c)	
The Policy Schedule and any Endorsement are to 
be read together and any word or such meaning 
wherever it appears shall have the meaning as 
stated in the Act / Indian Laws
d)	
The terms, conditions and exceptions that appear 
in the Policy or in any Endorsement are part of the 
contract, must be complied with and applies to 
each relevant Insured Person. Failure to comply 
with may result in the claim being denied
e)	
The attention of the policy holder is drawn to our 
website www.starhealth.in for anti fraud policy 
of the company for necessary compliance by all 
stake holders
30.	Customer Service: If at any time the Insured Person 
requires any clarification or assistance, the insured 
may contact Star Health and Allied Insurance Company 
Limited, No.1, New Tank Street, Valluvar Kottam High 
Road, Nungambakkam, Chennai 600034, during normal 
business hours.
STAR HEALTH AND ALLIED INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED   |   POLICY WORDINGS 
SUPER STAR   |   UIN : SHAHLIP25036V012425   |   POL / SS / V.4 / 2025
26  /   38
L I S T  O F  I N S U R A N C E 
O M B U D S M A N
Office Details
Jurisdiction of Office
Union Territory, District
AHMEDABAD
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,
Jeevan Prakash Building,
6th floor, Tilak Marg,
Relief Road,
AHMEDABAD – 380 001.
Tel.: 079 - 25501201/02/05/06
Gujarat, Dadra & Nagar 
Haveli,  Daman and Diu.
Email: bimalokpal.ahmedabad@cioins.co.in
BENGALURU
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,
Jeevan Soudha Building, 
PID No. 57-27-N-19
Ground Floor, 19/19,
24th Main Road,
JP Nagar, Ist Phase, 
Bengaluru – 560 078.
Tel.: 080 - 26652048 / 
26652049
Karnataka.
Email: bimalokpal.bengaluru@cioins.co.in
BHOPAL
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,
1st floor, “Jeevan Shikha”,
60-B, Hoshangabad Road,
Opp. Gayatri Mandir,
Bhopal – 462 011.
Tel.: 0755 - 2769201 / 
2769202
Madhya Pradesh,
Chhattisgarh.
Email: bimalokpal.bhopal@cioins.co.in
BHUBANESWAR
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,
62, Forest park, 
Bhubaneswar – 751 009.
Tel.: 0674 - 2596461 
/2596455
Odisha.
Email: bimalokpal.bhubaneswar@cioins.co.in
CHANDIGARH
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,
S.C.O. No. 101, 102 & 103,
2nd Floor,
Batra Building, Sector 17 – D,
Chandigarh – 160 017.
Tel.: 0172 - 4646394 / 
2706468
Punjab, Haryana 
(excluding Gurugram, 
Faridabad, Sonepat and 
Bahadurgarh), Himachal 
Pradesh, Union Territories of 
Jammu & Kashmir,Ladakh 
& Chandigarh.
Email: bimalokpal.chandigarh@cioins.co.in
CHENNAI
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,
Fatima Akhtar Court,
4th Floor, 453, Anna Salai, 
Teynampet,
CHENNAI – 600 018.
Tel.: 044 - 24333668 / 
24333678
Tamil Nadu, 
Puducherry Town and 
Karaikal
(which are part of 
Puducherry).
Email: bimalokpal.chennai@cioins.co.in
DELHI
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,
2/2 A, Universal Insurance 
Building, Asaf Ali Road,
New Delhi – 110 002.
Tel.: 011 - 23237539
Delhi & following Districts 
of Haryana - Gurugram, 
Faridabad, Sonepat & 
Bahadurgarh.
Email: bimalokpal.delhi@cioins.co.in
KOCHI
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,
10th  Floor, Jeevan Prakash, 
LIC Building,
Opp.to Maharaja’s College, 
M. G. Road,
Kochi - 682 011.
Tel.: 0484 - 2358759
Kerala, Lakshadweep,
Mahe-a part of Union 
Territory of Puducherry.
Email: bimalokpal.ernakulam@cioins.co.in
GUWAHATI
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,
Jeevan Nivesh, 5th Floor,
Nr. Panbazar over bridge, 
S.S. Road,
Guwahati – 781001(ASSAM).
Tel.: 0361 - 2632204 / 
2602205
Assam, Meghalaya, 
Manipur, Mizoram, 
Arunachal Pradesh, 
Nagaland and Tripura.
Email: bimalokpal.guwahati@cioins.co.in
HYDERABAD
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,
6-2-46, 1st floor, “Moin Court”,
Lane Opp. Saleem Function 
Palace,
A. C. Guards, Lakdi-Ka-Pool,
Hyderabad - 500 004.
Tel.: 040 - 23312122
Andhra Pradesh, 
Telangana, Yanam and 
part of Union Territory of 
Puducherry.
Email: bimalokpal.hyderabad@cioins.co.in
JAIPUR
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,
Jeevan Nidhi – II Bldg., Gr. 
Floor, Bhawani Singh Marg,
Jaipur - 302 005.
Tel.: 0141 – 2740363/2740798
Rajasthan.
Email: bimalokpal.jaipur@cioins.co.in
STAR HEALTH AND ALLIED INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED   |   POLICY WORDINGS 
SUPER STAR   |   UIN : SHAHLIP25036V012425   |   POL / SS / V.4 / 2025
27  /   38
KOLKATA
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,
Hindustan Bldg. Annexe,
7th Floor, 4, C.R. Avenue,
KOLKATA - 700 072.
Tel.: 033 - 22124339 / 22124341
West Bengal, Sikkim, 
Andaman & Nicobar 
Islands.
Email: bimalokpal.kolkata@cioins.co.in
LUCKNOW
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,
6th Floor, Jeevan Bhawan, 
Phase-II,
Nawal Kishore Road, 
Hazratganj,
Lucknow - 226 001.
Tel.: 0522 – 4002082/ 
3500613
Email: bimalokpal.
lucknow@cioins.co.in
Districts of Uttar Pradesh: 
Lalitpur, Jhansi, Mahoba, 
Hamirpur, Banda, 
Chitrakoot, Allahabad, 
Mirzapur, Sonbhabdra, 
Fatehpur, Pratapgarh, 
Jaunpur,Varanasi, Gazipur, 
Jalaun, Kanpur, Lucknow, 
Unnao, Sitapur, Lakhimpur, 
Bahraich, Barabanki, 
Raebareli, Sravasti, 
Gonda, Faizabad, Amethi, 
Kaushambi, Balrampur, 
Basti, Ambedkarnagar, 
Sultanpur, Maharajgang, 
Santkabirnagar, Azamgarh, 
Kushinagar, Gorkhpur, Deoria, 
Mau, Ghazipur, Chandauli, 
Ballia, Sidharathnagar.
Email: bimalokpal.lucknow@cioins.co.in
MUMBAI
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,
3rd Floor,
Jeevan Seva Annexe,
S. V. Road, Santacruz (W),
Mumbai - 400 054.
Tel.: 022-69038800/27/29/31/32/33
Goa, Mumbai Metropolitan 
Region (excluding Navi 
Mumbai & Thane).
Email: bimalokpal.mumbai@cioins.co.in
NOIDA
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,
Bhagwan Sahai Palace
4th Floor, Main Road, Naya 
Bans, Sector 15,
Distt: Gautam Buddh Nagar, 
U.P-201301.
Tel.: 0120-2514252 / 2514253
State of Uttarakhand and 
the following Districts of 
Uttar Pradesh: Agra, Aligarh, 
Bagpat, Bareilly, Bijnor, 
Budaun, Bulandshehar, Etah, 
Kannauj, Mainpuri, Mathura, 
Meerut, Moradabad, 
Muzaffarnagar, Oraiyya, 
Pilibhit, Etawah, Farrukhabad, 
Firozbad, Gautam Buddh 
nagar, Ghaziabad, Hardoi, 
Shahjahanpur, Hapur, 
Shamli, Rampur, Kashganj, 
Sambhal, Amroha, 
Hathras, Kanshiramnagar, 
Saharanpur.
Email: bimalokpal.noida@cioins.co.in
PATNA
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,
2nd Floor, Lalit Bhawan,
Bailey Road, Patna 800 001.
Tel.: 0612-2547068
Bihar, Jharkhand.
Email: bimalokpal.patna@cioins.co.in
PUNE
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,
Jeevan Darshan Bldg.,
3rd Floor,
C.T.S. No.s. 195 to 198,
N.C. Kelkar Road,
Narayan Peth,
Pune – 411 030.
Tel.: 020-24471175
Maharashtra, Areas of 
Navi Mumbai and Thane 
(excluding Mumbai 
Metropolitan Region).
Email: bimalokpal.pune@cioins.co.in
For the details of Insurance Ombudsman please 
visit:  https://cioins.co.in/Complaint/Online
N O N - M E D I C A L  I T E M S 
( C O N S U M A B L E S )
L I S T  I  ( 6 8  I T E M S )
The following List I items are covered if the optional cover 
“Section III-3” is opted by the Insured
SI No
Item
1
BABY FOOD
2
BABY UTILITIES CHARGES
3
BEAUTY SERVICES
4
BELTS / BRACES
5
BUDS
6
COLD PACK / HOT PACK
7
CARRY BAGS
8
EMAIL / INTERNET CHARGES
9
FOOD CHARGES (OTHER THAN PATIENT’s DIET 
PROVIDED BY HOSPITAL)
10
LEGGINGS
11
LAUNDRY CHARGES
12
MINERAL WATER
13
SANITARY PAD
14
TELEPHONE CHARGES
15
GUEST SERVICES
16
CREPE BANDAGE
17
DIAPER OF ANY TYPE
18
EYELET COLLAR
19
SLINGS
20
BLOOD GROUPING AND CROSS MATCHING OF 
DONORS SAMPLES
21
SERVICE CHARGES WHERE NURSING CHARGE ALSO 
CHARGED
22
Television Charges
23
SURCHARGES
STAR HEALTH AND ALLIED INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED   |   POLICY WORDINGS 
SUPER STAR   |   UIN : SHAHLIP25036V012425   |   POL / SS / V.4 / 2025
28  /   38
24
ATTENDANT CHARGES
25
EXTRA DIET OF PATIENT (OTHER THAN THAT WHICH 
FORMS PART OF BED CHARGE)
26
BIRTH CERTIFICATE
27
CERTIFICATE CHARGES
28
COURIER CHARGES
29
CONVEYANCE CHARGES
30
MEDICAL CERTIFICATE
31
MEDICAL RECORDS
32
PHOTOCOPIES CHARGES
33
MORTUARY CHARGES
34
WALKING AIDS CHARGES
35
OXYGEN CYLINDER (FOR USAGE OUTSIDE THE HOSPITAL)
36
SPACER
37
SPIROMETRE
38
NEBULIZER KIT
39
STEAM INHALER
40
ARMSLING
41
THERMOMETER
42
CERVICAL COLLAR
43
SPLINT
44
DIABETIC FOOT WEAR
45
KNEE BRACES (LONG / SHORT / HINGED)
46
KNEE IMMOBILIZER / SHOULDER IMMOBILIZER
47
LUMBO SACRAL BELT
48
NIMBUS BED OR WATER OR AIR BED CHARGES
49
AMBULANCE COLLAR
50
AMBULANCE EQUIPMENT
51
ABDOMINAL BINDER
52
PRIVATE NURSES CHARGES- SPECIAL NURSING CHARGES
53
SUGAR FREE Tablets
54
CREAMS POWDERS LOTIONS (Toiletries are not 
payable, only prescribed medical pharmaceuticals 
payable)
55
ECG ELECTRODES
56
GLOVES
57
NEBULISATION KIT
58
ANY KIT WITH NO DETAILS MENTIONED [DELIVERY KIT, 
ORTHOKIT, RECOVERY KIT, ETC]
59
KIDNEY TRAY
60
MASK
61
OUNCE GLASS
62
OXYGEN MASK
63
PELVIC TRACTION BELT
64
PAN CAN
65
TROLLY COVER
66
UROMETER, URINE JUG
67
AMBULANCE
68
VASOFIX SAFETY
List II — Items that are to be subsumed into
Room Charges
SI.No.
Item
1
BABY CHARGES (UNLESS SPECIFIED / INDICATED)
2
HAND WASH
3
SHOE COVER
4
CAPS
5
CRADLE CHARGES
6
COMB
7
EAU-DE-COLOGNE / ROOM FRESHNERS
8
FOOT COVER
9
GOWN
10
SLIPPERS
11
TISSUE PAPER
12
TOOTH PASTE
13
TOOTH BRUSH
14
BED PAN
15
FACE MASK
16
FLEXI MASK
17
HAND HOLDER
18
SPUTUM CUP
19
DISINFECTANT LOTIONS
20
LUXURY TAX
21
HVAC
22
HOUSE KEEPING CHARGES
23
AIR CONDITIONER CHARGES
24
IM IV INJECTION CHARGES
25
CLEAN SHEET
26
BLANKET / WARMER BLANKET
27
ADMISSION KIT
28
DIABETIC CHART CHARGES
29
DOCUMENTATION CHARGES / ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES
30
DISCHARGE PROCEDURE CHARGES
31
DAILY CHART CHARGES
32
ENTRANCE PASS / VISITORS PASS CHARGES
33
EXPENSES RELATED TO PRESCRIPTION ON DISCHARGE
34
FILE OPENING CHARGES
35
INCIDENTAL EXPENSES / MISC. CHARGES (NOT 
EXPLAINED)
36
PATIENT IDENTIFICATION BAND / NAME TAG
37
PULSEOXYMETER CHARGES
STAR HEALTH AND ALLIED INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED   |   POLICY WORDINGS 
SUPER STAR   |   UIN : SHAHLIP25036V012425   |   POL / SS / V.4 / 2025
29  /   38
List III — Items that are to be subsumed into
Procedure Charges
SI.No.
Item
1
HAIR REMOVAL CREAM
2
DISPOSABLES RAZORS CHARGES (for site preparations)
3
EYE PAD
4
EYE SHEILD
5
CAMERA COVER
6
DVD, CD CHARGES
7
GAUSE SOFT
8
GAUZE
9
WARD AND THEATRE BOOKING CHARGES
10
ARTHROSCOPY AND ENDOSCOPY INSTRUMENTS
11
MICROSCOPE COVER
12
SURGICAL BLADES, HARMONICSCALPEL,SHAVER
13
SURGICAL DRILL
14
EYE KIT
15
EYE DRAPE
16
X-RAY FILM
17
BOYLES APPARATUS CHARGES
18
COTTON
19
COTTON BANDAGE
20
SURGICAL TAPE
21
APRON
22
TORNIQUET
23
ORTHOBUNDLE, GYNAEC BUNDLE
List IV — Items that are to be subsumed into
costs of treatment
SI No.
Item
1
ADMISSION / REGISTRATION CHARGES
2
HOSPITALISATION FOR EVALUATION / DIAGNOSTIC 
PURPOSE
3
URINE CONTAINER
4
BLOOD RESERVATION CHARGES AND ANTE NATAL 
BOOKING CHARGES
5
&PAP MACHINE
6
CPAP / CAPD EQUIPMENTS
7
INFUSION PUMP— COST
8
HYDROGEN PEROXIDE\SPIRIT / DISINFECTANTS ETC
9
NUTRITION PLANNING CHARGES - DIETICIAN CHARGES 
- DIET CHARGES
10
HIV KIT
11
ANTISEPTIC MOUTHWASH
12
LOZENGES
13
MOUTH PAINT
14
VACCINATION CHARGES
15
ALCOHOL SWABES
16
SCRUB SOLUTION / STERILLIUM
17
Glucometer& Strips
18
URINE BAG
5 4  C R I T I C A L  I L L N E S S E S  L I S T
S.No.
Annexure - I
1
Cancer of Specified Severity
2
Myocardial Infarction
3
Kidney Failure Requiring Regular Dialysis
4
Open Chest CABG
5
Permanent Paralysis of Limbs
6
Stroke Resulting in Permanent Symptoms
7
Surgery for Major Organ / Bone Marrow Transplant
8
Benign Brain Tumour
9
Blindness
10
Deafness
11
HIV Due to Blood Transfusion and Occupationally 
Acquired HIV
12
End Stage Lung Failure
13
End Stage Liver Failure
14
Major Third degree Burns
15
Coma of Specified Severity
16
Repair / Replacement of Heart Valves
17
Motor Neuron Disease with Permanent Symptoms
18
Multiple Sclerosis with Persisting Symptoms
19
Aorta Graft Surgery
20
Severe Rheumatoid Arthritis
21
Alzheimer’s Disease
22
Primary (Idiopathic) Pulmonary Hypertension
23
Loss of Limbs
24
Terminal illness
25
Tuberculosis Meningitis
26
Apallic Syndrome
STAR HEALTH AND ALLIED INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED   |   POLICY WORDINGS 
SUPER STAR   |   UIN : SHAHLIP25036V012425   |   POL / SS / V.4 / 2025
30  /   38
27
Brain Surgery
28
Major Head Trauma
29
Crohn’s Disease
30
Infective Endocarditis
31
Creutzfeldt-Jacob Disease (CJD)
32
Medullary Cystic Disease
33
Loss of Speech
34
Encephalitis
35
Fulminant Hepatitis
36
Muscular Dystrophy
37
Systemic Lupus Erythematosus with Lupus Nephritis
38
Dissecting Aortic Aneurysm
39
Severe Ulcerative Colitis
40
Amputation of Feet due to Complications from 
Diabetes
41
Aplastic Anemia
42
Bacterial Meningitis
43
Chronic Adrenal Insufficiency (Addison’s Disease)
44
Chronic Relapsing Pancreatitis
45
Eisenmenger’s Syndrome
46
Hemiplegia
47
Loss of Independent Existence
48
Loss of One Limb and One Eye
49
Myelofibrosis
50
Other Serious Coronary Artery Disease
51
Pheochromocytoma
52
Poliomyelitis
53
Progressive Scleroderma
54
Progressive Supranuclear Palsy
CRITICAL ILLNESS MEANS
S T A N D A R D  D E F I N I T I O N S
1.	
CANCER OF SPECIFIED SEVERITY: A malignant tumor 
characterized by the uncontrolled growth and spread 
of malignant cells with invasion and destruction of 
normal tissues. This diagnosis must be supported by 
histological evidence of malignancy. The term cancer 
includes leukemia, lymphoma and sarcoma.
The following are excluded –
i.	
All tumors which are histologically described as 
carcinoma in situ, benign, pre-malignant, borderline 
malignant, low malignant potential, neoplasm of 
unknown behavior, or non-invasive, including but 
not limited to: Carcinoma in situ of breasts, Cervical 
dysplasia CIN-1, CIN - 2 and CIN-3.
ii.	
Any non-melanoma skin carcinoma unless there is 
evidence of metastases to lymph nodes or beyond;
iii.	 Malignant melanoma that has not caused invasion 
beyond the epidermis;
iv.	 All tumors of the prostate unless histologically 
classified as having a Gleason score greater than 
6 or having progressed to at least clinical TNM 
classification T2N0M0
v.	 All Thyroid cancers histologically classified as 
T1N0M0 (TNM Classification) or below;
vi.	 Chronic lymphocytic leukaemia less than RAI stage 3
vii.	 Non-invasive papillary cancer of the bladder 
histologically described as TaN0M0 or of a lesser 
classification,
viii.	All Gastro-Intestinal Stromal Tumors histologically 
classified as T1N0M0 (TNM Classification) or below and 
with mitotic count of less than or equal to 5 / 50 HPFs;
2.	 MYOCARDIAL INFARCTION: The first occurrence of heart 
attack or myocardial infarction, which means the death 
of a portion of the heart muscle as a result of inadequate 
blood supply to the relevant area. The diagnosis for 
Myocardial Infarction should be evidenced by all of the 
following criteria:
i.	
A history of typical clinical symptoms consistent 
with the diagnosis of acute myocardial infarction 
(For e.g. typical chest pain)
ii.	
New characteristic electrocardiogram changes
iii. Elevation of infarction specific enzymes, Troponins 
or other specific biochemical markers.
The following are excluded:
A.	 Other acute Coronary Syndromes
B.	 Any type of angina pectoris
C.	 A rise in cardiac biomarkers or Troponin T or I in 
absence of overt ischemic heart disease OR following 
an intra‑arterial cardiac procedure.
STAR HEALTH AND ALLIED INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED   |   POLICY WORDINGS 
SUPER STAR   |   UIN : SHAHLIP25036V012425   |   POL / SS / V.4 / 2025
31  /   38
3.	 OPEN CHEST CABG-: The actual undergoing of heart 
surgery to correct blockage or narrowing in one or more 
coronary artery(s), by coronary artery bypass grafting 
done via a sternotomy (cutting through the breast 
bone) or minimally invasive keyhole coronary artery 
bypass procedures. The diagnosis must be supported 
by a coronary angiography and the realization of 
surgery has to be confirmed by a cardiologist.
The following are excluded 
Angioplasty and / or any other intra-arterial procedures 
are excluded.
4.	 REPAIR / REPLACEMENT OF HEART VALVES: The actual 
undergoing of open-heart valve surgery to replace or repair 
one or more heart valves or Trans catheter aortic valve 
implantation (TAVI) under anesthesia, as a consequence 
of defects in, abnormalities of, or disease- affected 
cardiac valve. The diagnosis of the valve abnormality 
must be supported by an echocardiography / a cardiac 
catheterization and the realization of surgery has to be 
confirmed by a specialist medical practitioner. Catheter 
based techniques apart from TAVI (Trans catheter aortic 
valve implantation), including but not limited to, balloon 
valvotomy / valvuloplasty are excluded. “
5.	 COMA 
OF 
SPECIFIED 
SEVERITY: 
A 
state 
of 
unconsciousness with no reaction or response to 
external stimuli or internal needs. This diagnosis must 
be supported by evidence of all of the following:
i.	
no response to external stimuli continuously for at 
least 96 hours;
ii.	
life support measures are necessary to sustain life; 
and
iii.	 permanent neurological deficit which must be 
assessed at least 30 days after the onset of the coma.
The condition has to be confirmed by a specialist 
medical practitioner. Coma resulting directly from 
alcohol or drug abuse is excluded.
6.	 KIDNEY FAILURE REQUIRING REGULAR DIALYSIS: End 
stage renal disease presenting as chronic irreversible 
failure of both kidneys to function, as a result of which 
either regular renal dialysis (haemodialysis or peritoneal 
dialysis) is instituted or renal transplantation is carried 
out. Diagnosis has to be confirmed by a specialist 
medical practitioner.
7.	 STROKE RESULTING IN PERMANENT SYMPTOMS: Any 
cerebrovascular 
incident 
producing 
permanent 
neurological sequelae. This includes infarction of 
brain tissue, thrombosis in an intracranial vessel, 
haemorrhage and embolisation from an extracranial 
source. Diagnosis has to be confirmed by a specialist 
medical practitioner and evidenced by typical clinical 
symptoms as well as typical findings in CT Scan or MRI 
of the brain. Evidence of permanent neurological deficit 
lasting for at least 3 months has to be produced.
The following are excluded:
i.	
Transient ischemic attacks (TIA)
ii.	
Traumatic injury of the brain
iii.	 Vascular disease affecting only the eye or optic 
nerve or vestibular functions.
8.	 SURGERY FOR MAJOR ORGAN / BONE MARROW 
TRANSPLANT: The actual undergoing of a transplant of:
i.	
One of the following human organs: heart, lung, liver, 
kidney, pancreas, that resulted from irreversible 
end-stage failure of the relevant organ, or
ii.	
Human bone marrow using haematopoietic stem 
cells. The undergoing of a transplant has to be 
confirmed by a specialist medical practitioner.
The following are excluded:
i.	
Other stem-cell transplants
ii. 
Where only islets of langerhans are transplanted
9.	 PERMANENT PARALYSIS OF LIMBS: Total and irreversible 
loss of use of two or more limbs as a result of injury or 
disease of the brain or spinal cord. A specialist medical 
practitioner must be of the opinion that the paralysis 
will be permanent with no hope of recovery and must 
be present for more than 3 months.
10.	 MOTOR NEURON DISEASE WITH PERMANENT SYMPTOMS: 
Motor neuron disease diagnosed by a specialist medical 
practitioner as spinal muscular atrophy, progressive 
bulbar palsy, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis or primary 
lateral sclerosis. There must be progressive degeneration 
of corticospinal tracts and anterior horn cells or bulbar 
efferent neurons. There must be current significant 
and permanent functional neurological impairment 
with objective evidence of motor dysfunction that has 
persisted for a continuous period of at least 3 months.
11.	 MULTIPLE SCLEROSIS WITH PERSISTING SYMPTOMS
I. 
The unequivocal diagnosis of Definite Multiple Sclerosis 
confirmed and evidenced by all of the following:
i.	
investigations including typical MRI findings 
which unequivocally confirm the diagnosis to be 
multiple sclerosis and
ii.	
there must be current clinical impairment of motor 
or sensory function, which must have persisted for 
a continuous period of at least 6 months.
II.	
Neurological damage due to SLE is excluded
12.	 BENIGN BRAIN TUMOR: Benign brain tumor is defined 
as a life threatening, non-cancerous tumor in the 
brain, cranial nerves or meninges within the skull. The 
presence of the underlying tumor must be confirmed by 
imaging studies such as CT scan or MRI.
This brain tumor must result in at least one of the 
following and must be confirmed by the relevant 
medical specialist.
i.	
Permanent Neurological deficit with persisting 
clinical symptoms for a continuous period of at least 
90 consecutive days or
STAR HEALTH AND ALLIED INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED   |   POLICY WORDINGS 
SUPER STAR   |   UIN : SHAHLIP25036V012425   |   POL / SS / V.4 / 2025
32  /   38
ii.	
Undergone surgical resection or radiation therapy 
to treat the brain tumor.
Cysts, Granulomas, malformations in the arteries or 
veins of the brain, hematomas, abscesses, pituitary 
tumors, tumors of skull bones and tumors of the spinal 
cord are excluded
13.	 BLINDNESS: Total, permanent and irreversible loss of all 
vision in both eyes as a result of illness or accident.
The Blindness is evidenced by:
i. 
corrected visual acuity being 3 / 60 or less in both 
eyes or ;
ii.	
the field of vision being less than 10 degrees in both 
eyes.
The diagnosis of blindness must be confirmed and 
must not be correctable by aids or surgical procedure.
14.	 DEAFNESS: Total and irreversible loss of hearing in both 
ears as a result of illness or accident. This diagnosis 
must be supported by pure tone audiogram test and 
certified by an Ear, Nose and Throat (ENT) specialist. 
Total means “the loss of hearing to the extent that the 
loss is greater than 90decibels across all frequencies of 
hearing” in both ears.
15.	 END STAGE LUNG FAILURE: End stage lung disease, 
causing chronic respiratory failure, as confirmed and 
evidenced by all of the following:
i.	
FEV1 test results consistently less than 1 litre 
measured on 3 occasions 3 months apart; and
ii.	
Requiring continuous permanent supplementary 
oxygen therapy for hypoxemia; and
iii.	 Arterial blood gas analysis with partial oxygen 
pressure of 55mmHg or less (PaO2 < 55mmHg); and
iv.	 Dyspnea at rest.
16.	 END STAGE LIVER FAILURE: Permanent and irreversible 
failure of liver function that has resulted in all three of 
the following:
i.	
Permanent jaundice; and
ii.	
Ascites; and
iii.	 Hepatic encephalopathy
iv.	 Liver failure secondary to drug or alcohol abuse is 
excluded.
17.	 LOSS OF SPEECH: Total and irrecoverable loss of the 
ability to speak as a result of injury or disease to the 
vocal cords. The inability to speak must be established 
for a continuous period of 12 months. This diagnosis 
must be supported by medical evidence furnished by 
an Ear, Nose, Throat (ENT) specialist.
18.	 LOSS OF LIMBS: The physical separation of two or more limbs, 
at or above the wrist or ankle level limbs as a result of injury 
or disease. This will include medically necessary amputation 
necessitated by injury or disease. The separation has to be 
permanent without any chance of surgical correction. Loss 
of Limbs resulting directly or indirectly from self-inflicted 
injury, alcohol or drug abuse is excluded.
19.	 MAJOR HEAD TRAUMA: Accidental head injury resulting 
in permanent Neurological deficit to be assessed no 
sooner than 3 months from the date of the accident. This 
diagnosis must be supported by unequivocal findings 
on 
Magnetic 
Resonance 
Imaging, 
Computerized 
Tomography, or other reliable imaging techniques. 
The accident must be caused solely and directly by 
accidental, violent, external and visible means and 
independently of all other causes.
The Accidental Head injury must result in an inability to 
perform at least three (3) of the following Activities of 
Daily Living either with or without the use of mechanical 
equipment, 
special 
devices 
or 
other 
aids 
and 
adaptations in use for disabled persons. For the purpose 
of this benefit, the word “permanent” shall mean beyond 
the scope of recovery with current medical knowledge 
and technology.
The Activities of Daily Living are:
i.	
Washing: the ability to wash in the bath or shower 
(including getting into and out of the bath or shower) 
or wash satisfactorily by other means;
ii.	
Dressing: the ability to put on, take off, secure and 
unfasten all garments and, as appropriate, any 
braces, artificial limbs or other surgical appliances;
iii.	 Transferring: the ability to move from a bed to an 
upright chair or wheelchair and vice versa;
iv.	 Mobility: the ability to move indoors from room to 
room on level surfaces;
v.	 Toileting: the ability to use the lavatory or otherwise 
manage bowel and bladder functions so as to 
maintain a satisfactory level of personal hygiene;
vi.	 Feeding: the ability to feed oneself once food has 
been prepared and made available. Spinal cord 
injury are excluded:
20.	PRIMARY (IDIOPATHIC) PULMONARY HYPERTENSION: An 
unequivocal diagnosis of Primary (Idiopathic) Pulmonary 
Hypertension by a Cardiologist or specialist in respiratory 
medicine with evidence of right ventricular enlargement 
and the pulmonary artery pressure above 30 mm of Hg 
on Cardiac Cauterization. There must be permanent 
irreversible physical impairment to the degree of at least 
Class IV of the New York Heart Association Classification 
of cardiac impairment.
The NYHA Classification of Cardiac Impairment are as 
follows:
i.	
Class III: Marked limitation of physical activity. 
Comfortable at rest, but less than ordinary activity 
causes symptoms.
ii.	
Class IV: Unable to engage in any physical activity without 
discomfort. Symptoms may be present even at rest.
STAR HEALTH AND ALLIED INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED   |   POLICY WORDINGS 
SUPER STAR   |   UIN : SHAHLIP25036V012425   |   POL / SS / V.4 / 2025
33  /   38
Pulmonary hypertension associated with lung disease, 
chronic hypoventilation, pulmonary thromboembolic 
disease, drugs and toxins, diseases of the left side of 
the heart, congenital heart disease and any secondary 
cause are specifically excluded.
21.	 MAJOR THIRD DEGREE BURNS: There must be third-
degree burns with scarring that cover at least 40% of 
the body’s surface area. The diagnosis must confirm 
the total area involved using standardized, clinically 
accepted, body surface area charts covering 40% of the 
body surface area.
S P E C I F I C  D E F I N I T I O N S
1.	
ALZHEIMER’S DISEASE Alzheimer’s (presenile dementia) 
disease is a progressive degenerative disease of the 
brain, characterised by diffuse atrophy throughout 
the cerebral cortex with distinctive histopathological 
changes. Deterioration or loss of intellectual capacity, 
as confirmed by clinical evaluation and imaging 
tests, arising from Alzheimer’s disease, resulting in 
progressive significant reduction in mental and social 
functioning, requiring the continuous supervision of the 
Insured Person. The diagnosis must be supported by the 
clinical confirmation of a Neurologist and supported by 
Our appointed Medical Practitioner.
The following conditions are however not covered:
a.	 non-organic diseases such as neurosis and 
psychiatric Illnesses;
b.	 alcohol related brain damage; and
c.	 any other type of irreversible organic disorder / 
dementia.
2.	 CREUTZFELDT-JACOB DISEASE (CJD) Creutzfeldt-Jacob 
disease is an incurable brain infection that causes 
rapidly progressive deterioration of mental function and 
movement. A Registered Doctor who is a neurologist 
must make a definite diagnosis of Creutzfeldt-Jacob 
disease based on clinical assessment, EEG and imaging. 
There must be objective neurological abnormalities on 
exam along with severe progressive dementia.
3.	 ENCEPHALITIS Severe inflammation of brain substance 
(cerebral 
hemisphere, 
brainstem 
or 
cerebellum) 
caused by viral infection and resulting in permanent 
neurological deficit. This diagnosis must be certified 
by a Registered Doctor who is a consultant neurologist 
and the permanent neurological deficit must be 
documented for at least 6 weeks. 
Encephalitis caused by HIV infection is excluded.
4.	 FULMINANT HEPATITIS A sub-massive to massive necrosis 
of the liver by the Hepatitis virus, leading precipitously to 
liver failure. This diagnosis must be supported by all of 
the following:
a.	 Rapid decreasing of liver size;
b.	 Necrosis involving entire lobules, leaving only a 
collapsed reticular framework;
c.	 Rapid deterioration of liver function tests;
d.	 Deepening jaundice; and
e.	 Hepatic encephalopathy.
Acute Hepatitis infection or carrier status alone does 
not meet the diagnostic criteria.
5.	 MUSCULAR DYSTROPHY A group of hereditary degenerative 
diseases of muscle characterised by weakness and 
atrophy of muscle. The diagnosis of muscular dystrophy 
must be unequivocal and made by a Registered Doctor 
who is a consultant neurologist. The condition must result 
in the inability of the Life Insured to perform (whether 
aided or unaided) at least 3 of the 6 “Activities of Daily 
Living” for a continuous period of at least 6 months.
Activities of daily living:
i.	
Washing: the ability to wash in the bath or shower 
(including getting into and out of the shower) or 
wash satisfactorily by other means and maintain an 
adequate level of cleanliness and personal hygiene;
ii.	
Dressing: the ability to put on, take off, secure and 
unfasten all garments and, as appropriate, any 
braces, artificial limbs or other surgical appliances;
iii.	 Transferring: The ability to move from a lying 
position in a bed to a sitting position in an upright 
chair or wheel chair and vice versa;
iv.	 Toileting: the ability to use the lavatory or otherwise 
manage bowel and bladder functions so as to 
maintain a satisfactory level of personal hygiene;
v.	 Feeding: the ability to feed oneself, food from a plate 
or bowl to the mouth once food has been prepared 
and made available. 
vi.	 Mobility: The ability to move indoors from room 
to room on level surfaces at the normal place of 
residence
6.	 AORTA GRAFT SURGERY The actual undergoing of 
major Surgery to repair or correct aneurysm, narrowing, 
obstruction or dissection of the Aorta through surgical 
opening of the chest or abdomen. For the purpose 
of this cover the definition of “Aorta” shall mean the 
thoracic and abdominal aorta but not its branches. 
The following are exclude from this definition
a.	 Surgery performed using only minimally invasive or 
intra-arterial techniques.
b.	 Angioplasty and all other intra-arterial, catheter 
based techniques, “keyhole” or laser procedures.
STAR HEALTH AND ALLIED INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED   |   POLICY WORDINGS 
SUPER STAR   |   UIN : SHAHLIP25036V012425   |   POL / SS / V.4 / 2025
34  /   38
7.	 SYSTEMIC 
LUPUS 
ERYTHEMATOSUS 
WITH 
LUPUS 
NEPHRITIS A 
multi-system 
autoimmune 
disorder 
characterised by the development of autoantibodies 
directed against various self-antigens. In respect of this 
Policy, systemic lupus erythematosus will be restricted 
to those forms of systemic lupus erythematosus which 
involve the kidneys (Class III to Class V Lupus Nephritis, 
established by renal biopsy, and in accordance with 
the WHO Classification). The final diagnosis must 
be confirmed by a Registered Doctor specialising in 
Rheumatology and Immunology.
The WHO Classification of Lupus Nephritis:
Class I Minimal Change Lupus Glomerulonephritis
Class II Messangial Lupus Glomerulonephritis
Class III Focal Segmental Proliferative Lupus Glomerulonephritis
Class IV Diffuse Proliferative Lupus Glomerulonephritis
Class V Membranous Lupus Glomerulonephritis
8.	 DISSECTING AORTIC ANEURYSM A condition where the 
inner lining of the aorta (intima layer) is interrupted so 
that blood enters the wall of the aorta and separates 
its layers. For the purpose of this definition, aorta shall 
mean the thoracic and abdominal aorta but not its 
branches. The diagnosis must be made by a Registered 
Doctor who is a specialist with computed tomography 
(CT) 
scan, 
magnetic 
resonance 
imaging 
(MRI), 
magnetic resonance angiograph (MRA) or angiogram. 
Emergency surgical repair is required.
9.	 INFECTIVE ENDOCARDITIS Inflammation of the inner 
lining of the heart caused by infectious organisms, 
where all of the following criteria are met:
I.	
Positive result of the blood culture proving presence 
of the infectious organism(s);
II.	
Presence 
of 
at 
least 
moderate 
heart 
valve 
incompetence (meaning regurgitant fraction of 
20% or above) or moderate heart valve stenosis 
(resulting in heart valve area of 30% or less of normal 
value) attributable to Infective Endocarditis; and
III.	 The Diagnosis of Infective Endocarditis and the 
severity of valvular impairment are  confirmed by a 
Registered Doctor who is a cardiologist.
10.	 SEVERE ULCERATIVE COLITIS Acute fulminant ulcerative 
colitis with life threatening electrolyte disturbances.
All of the following criteria must be met:
•	
the entire colon is affected, with severe bloody 
diarrhoea; and
•	
the necessary treatment is total colectomy and 
ileostomy; and
•	
the diagnosis must be based on histopathological 
features and confirmed by a Registered Doctor who 
is a specialist in gastroenterology.
11.	 AMPUTATION OF FEET DUE TO COMPLICATIONS FROM 
DIABETES Diabetic neuropathy and vasculitis resulting 
in the amputation of both feet at or above ankle as 
advised by a Registered Doctor who is a specialist as 
the only means to maintain life. Amputation of toe or 
toes, or any other causes for amputation shall not be 
covered.
12.	 APALLIC SYNDROME Universal necrosis of the brain cortex 
with the brainstem remaining intact. The diagnosis 
must be confirmed by a Neurologist acceptable to Us 
and the condition must be documented for at least one 
month.
13.	 APLASTIC ANEMIA Chronic persistent bone marrow 
failure which results in anemia, neutropenia and 
thrombocytopenia requiring treatment with at least 
one of the following:
•	
Blood product transfusion;
•	
Marrow stimulating agents;
•	
Immunosuppressive agents; or
•	
Bone marrow transplantation.
The diagnosis must be confirmed by a haematologist 
using relevant laboratory investigations including Bone 
Marrow Biopsy resulting in bone marrow cellularity of 
less than 25% which is evidenced by any two of the 
following:
a.	 Absolute neutrophil count of less than 500/mm³ or 
less
b.	 Platelets count less than 20,000/mm³ or less
c.	 Reticulocyte count of less than 20,000/mm³ or less
Temporary or reversible Aplastic Anemia is excluded.
14.	 BACTERIAL MENINGITIS: Bacterial infection resulting in 
severe inflammation of the membranes of the brain 
or spinal cord resulting in significant, irreversible and 
permanent neurological deficit. The neurological deficit 
must persist for at least 6 weeks. This diagnosis must be 
confirmed by:
a.	 The presence of bacterial infection in cerebrospinal 
fluid by lumbar puncture; and
b.	 A consultant neurologist.
Bacterial Meningitis in the presence of HIV infection is 
excluded.
15.	 BRAIN SURGERY The actual undergoing of surgery to 
the brain under general anaesthesia during which a 
craniotomy is performed. Keyhole surgery is included 
however, minimally invasive treatment where no 
surgical incision is performed to expose the target, 
such as irradiation by gamma knife or endovascular 
neuroradiological interventions such as embolizations, 
thrombolysis and stereotactic biopsy are all excluded. 
Brain surgery as a result of an Accident is also excluded. 
The procedure must be considered medically necessary 
by a Registered Doctor who is a qualified specialist.
STAR HEALTH AND ALLIED INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED   |   POLICY WORDINGS 
SUPER STAR   |   UIN : SHAHLIP25036V012425   |   POL / SS / V.4 / 2025
35  /   38
16.	 CHRONIC ADRENAL INSUFFICIENCY (ADDISON’S DISEASE) 
An autoimmune disorder causing a gradual destruction 
of the adrenal gland resulting in the need for life long 
glucocorticoid and mineral corticoid replacement 
therapy. The disorder must be confirmed by a Registered 
Doctor who is a specialist in endocrinology through one 
of the following:
•	
ACTH simulation tests;
•	
insulin-induced hypoglycemia test;
•	
plasma ACTH level measurement;
•	
Plasma Renin Activity (PRA) level measurement.
Only autoimmune cause of primary adrenal insufficiency 
is included. All other causes of adrenal insufficiency are 
excluded.
17.	 CHRONIC RELAPSING PANCREATITIS An unequivocal 
diagnosis of Chronic Relapsing Pancreatitis, made by a 
Registered Doctor who is a specialist in gastroenterology 
and 
confirmed 
as 
a 
continuing 
inflammatory 
disease of the pancreas characterised by irreversible 
morphological change and typically causing pain and 
/ or permanent impairment of function. The condition 
must be confirmed by pancreatic function tests and 
radiographic and imaging evidence. 
Relapsing Pancreatitis caused directly or indirectly, 
wholly or partly, by alcohol is excluded.
18.	 CROHN’S DISEASE Crohn’s Disease is a chronic, 
transmural inflammatory disorder of the bowel. To 
be considered as severe, there must be evidence of 
continued inflammation in spite of optimal therapy, 
with all of the following having occurred:
I.	
Stricture formation causing intestinal obstruction 
requiring admission to hospital, and
II.	
Fistula formation between loops of bowel, and
III.	 At least one bowel segment resection.
The diagnosis must be made by a Registered Doctor 
who is a specialist Gastroenterologist and be proven 
histologically on a pathology report and / or the results 
of sigmoidoscopy or colonoscopy.
19.	 EISENMENGER’S SYNDROME Development of severe 
pulmonary hypertension and shunt reversal resulting 
from heart condition. The diagnosis must be made 
by a Registered Doctor who is a specialist with 
echocardiography and cardiac catheterisation and 
supported by the following criteria:
I.	
Mean pulmonary artery pressure > 40 mm Hg;
II.	
Pulmonary vascular resistance > 3mm / L / min 
(Wood units); and
III.	 Normal pulmonary wedge pressure < 15 mm Hg.
20.	HEMIPLEGIA The total and permanent loss of the use of 
one side of the body through paralysis caused by illness 
or injury, except when such injury is self-inflicted. 
21.	 HIV DUE TO BLOOD TRANSFUSION AND OCCUPATIONALLY 
ACQUIRED HIV Infection with the Human Immunodeficiency 
Virus (HIV) through a blood transfusion, provided that all 
of the following conditions are met:
I.	
The blood transfusion was medically necessary or 
given as part of a medical treatment;
II.	
The blood transfusion was received in India after 
the Policy Date, Date of endorsement or Date of 
reinstatement, whichever is the later;
III.	 The source of the infection is established to be from 
the Institution that provided the blood transfusion 
and the Institution is able to trace the origin of the 
HIV tainted blood; and
IV.	 The Life Insured does not suffer from Thalassaemia 
Major or Haemophilia.
Infection with the Human Immunodeficiency Virus 
(HIV) which resulted from an Accident occurring 
after the Policy Date, date of endorsement or date of 
reinstatement, whichever is the later whilst the Life 
Insured was carrying out the normal professional duties 
of his or her occupation in India, provided that all of the 
following are proven to the Company’s satisfaction:
I. 
Proof that the Accident involved a definite source of 
the HIV infected fluids;
II.	
Proof of sero-conversion from HIV negative to HIV 
positive occurring during the 180 days after the 
documented Accident. This proof must include a 
negative HIV antibody test conducted within 5 days 
of the Accident; and
III.	 HIV infection resulting from any other means 
including sexual activity and the use of intravenous 
drugs is excluded. 
This benefit is only payable when the occupation of 
the Life Insured is a Registered Doctor, housemen, 
medical student, registered nurse, medical laboratory 
technician, dentist (surgeon and nurse) or paramedical 
worker, working in medical centre or clinic in India. This 
benefit will not apply where a cure has become available 
prior to the infection. “Cure” means any treatment that 
renders the HIV inactive or non-infectious.
22.	LOSS OF INDEPENDENT EXISTENCE Inability to perform at 
least three (3) of the “Activities of Daily Living” as defined 
below (either with or without the use of mechanical 
equipment, special devices or other aids or adaptations 
in use for disabled persons) for a continuous period of 
at least six (6) months and leading to a permanent 
inability to perform the same. For the purpose of this 
definition, the word “permanent” shall mean beyond 
the hope of recovery with current medical knowledge 
and technology. The Diagnosis of Loss of Independent 
Existence must be confirmed by a Registered Doctor.
All psychiatric related causes are excluded.
Activities of daily living:
i.	
Washing: the ability to wash in the bath or shower 
(including getting into and out of the shower) or 
wash satisfactorily by other means and maintain an 
adequate level of cleanliness and personal hygiene;
ii.	
Dressing: the ability to put on, take off, secure and 
unfasten all garments and, as appropriate, any 
braces, artificial limbs or other surgical appliances;
STAR HEALTH AND ALLIED INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED   |   POLICY WORDINGS 
SUPER STAR   |   UIN : SHAHLIP25036V012425   |   POL / SS / V.4 / 2025
36  /   38
iii.	 Transferring: The ability to move from a lying position in a 
bed to a sitting position in an upright chair or wheel chair 
and vice versa;
iv.	 Toileting: the ability to use the lavatory or otherwise 
manage bowel and bladder functions so as to maintain a 
satisfactory level of personal hygiene;
v.	 Feeding: the ability to feed oneself, food from a plate 
or bowl to the mouth once food has been prepared and 
made available. 
vi.	 Mobility: The ability to move indoors from room to room on 
level surfaces at the normal place of residence 
23.	LOSS OF ONE LIMB AND ONE EYE Total, permanent and 
irrecoverable loss of sight of one eye and loss by severance of 
one limb at or above the elbow or knee.
The loss of sight of one eye must be clinically confirmed by a 
Registered Doctor who is an eye specialist, and must not be 
correctable by aides or surgical procedures.
24.	MEDULLARY CYSTIC DISEASE Medullary Cystic Disease where 
the following criteria are met:
•	
the presence in the kidney of multiple cysts in the renal 
medulla accompanied by the presence of tubular atrophy 
and interstitial fibrosis;
•	
clinical 
manifestations 
of 
anaemia, 
polyuria, 
and 
progressive deterioration in kidney function; and
• 
the Diagnosis of Medullary Cystic Disease is confirmed by 
renal biopsy.
Isolated or benign kidney cysts are specifically excluded from 
this benefit.
25.	MYELOFIBROSIS A disorder which can cause fibrous tissue to 
replace the normal bone marrow and results in anaemia, low 
levels of white blood cells and platelets and enlargement of the 
spleen. The condition must have progressed to the point that 
it is permanent and the severity is such that the Life Insured 
requires a blood transfusion at least monthly. The diagnosis of 
myelofibrosis must be supported by bone marrow biopsy and 
confirmed by a Registered Doctor who is a specialist.
26.	OTHER SERIOUS CORONARY ARTERY DISEASE Severe coronary 
artery disease in which at least three (3) major coronary 
arteries are individually occluded by a minimum of sixty 
percent (60%) or more, as proven by coronary angiogram only 
(non-invasive diagnostic procedures excluded).
For purposes of this definition, “major coronary artery” refers 
to any of the left main stem artery, left anterior descending 
artery, circumflex artery and right coronary artery (but not 
including their branches).
27.	 PHEOCHROMOCYTOMA Presence of a neuroendocrine tumour 
of the adrenal or extra-chromaffin tissue that secretes excess 
catecholamines requiring the actual undergoing of surgery to 
remove the tumour.
The Diagnosis of Pheochromocytoma must be confirmed by a 
Registered Doctor who is an endocrinologist.
28.	POLIOMYELITIS The occurrence of Poliomyelitis where the 
following conditions are met:
1. 
Poliovirus is identified as the cause,
2.	 Paralysis of the limb muscles or respiratory muscles must 
be present and persist for at least 3 months.
29.	PROGRESSIVE SCLERODERMA A systemic collagen-vascular 
disease causing progressive diffuse fibrosis in the skin, 
blood vessels and visceral organs. This diagnosis must be 
unequivocally supported by biopsy and serological evidence 
and the disorder must have reached systemic proportions to 
involve the heart, lungs or kidneys.
The following are excluded:
•	
Localised scleroderma (linear scleroderma or morphea);
•	
Eosinophilic fasciitis; and CREST syndrome.
30.	PROGRESSIVE SUPRANUCLEAR PALSY Confirmed by a Registered 
Doctor who is a specialist in neurology of a definite diagnosis 
of progressive supranuclear palsy. There must be permanent 
clinical impairment of motor function, eye movement disorder 
and postural instability.
31.	 SEVERE RHEUMATOID ARTHRITIS Unequivocal Diagnosis of 
systemic immune disorder of rheumatoid arthritis where all of 
the following criteria are met:
•	
Diagnostic criteria of the American College of Rheumatology 
for Rheumatoid Arthritis;
•	
Permanent inability to perform at least two (2) “Activities of 
Daily Living”;
• 
Widespread joint destruction and major clinical deformity 
of three (3) or more of the following joint areas: hands, 
wrists, elbows, knees, hips, ankle, cervical spine or feet; and
•	
The foregoing conditions have been present for at least six 
(6) months.
32.	TERMINAL ILLNESS The conclusive diagnosis of an illness, which 
in the opinion of a Registered Doctor who is an attending 
Consultant and agreed by our appointed Registered Doctor, 
life expectancy is no greater than twelve (12) months from the 
date of notification of claim, regardless of any treatment that 
might be undertaken.
33.	TUBERCULOSIS MENINGITIS Meningitis caused by tubercle 
bacilli, resulting in permanent neurological deficit. Such a 
diagnosis must be confirmed by a Registered Doctor who is a 
specialist in neurology.
STAR HEALTH AND ALLIED INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED   |   POLICY WORDINGS 
SUPER STAR   |   UIN : SHAHLIP25036V012425   |   POL / SS / V.4 / 2025
37  /   38
SL
Name of the Optional cover
When this 
optional can 
be opted 
-At First 
purchase/ At 
Renewal/ Both
Once 
Opted Can 
Insured Opt 
out during 
renewal
Premium to 
be Paid
Once Opted 
out whether 
insured can 
opt in again?
Is Medical 
Underwriting 
Mandatory
1
Smart Network
Both
Yes
Not Applicable
No
No
2
Quick shield
At first 
purchase
Not Applicable
Up to 5 policy 
years,
(If there is an 
admissible 
claim within 
the five years, 
we will deduct 
the balance 
premium from 
the claim 
amount)
Not Applicable
Yes
3
Coverage for Non-Medical Items 
(Consumables cover Table I (68 items))
Within the first 
three policy 
years
Yes
Every Year
No
No
4
Future Shield
At first 
purchase
Yes
(But to get 
the benefits 
Insured should 
continue till 
he/ she adds 
the newly 
wedded 
spouse)
Payable till the 
newly wedded 
spouse added 
in the policy
No
(Required 
during 
addition of 
spouse)
5
Maternity 
Expenses
Delivery 
Expenses (with 
24 months 
waiting period) 
and New Born 
Cover
Delivery 
Expenses
Limit per 
delivery
Option 1 – 
Rs.50,000/- 
Option 2 – 
Rs.1,00,000/-
Both
Yes
Every year 
(Coverage 
for maternity 
expenses will 
be available 
till this 
optional cover 
is renewed)
Yes (Waiting 
period will 
apply afresh)
No
Delivery Expenses 
(with 12 months 
waiting period) 
and New Born 
Cover
Delivery 
Expenses 
Covered up to 
Rs.30,000/- per 
delivery
Assisted Reproduction Treatment
6
Women Care
At first purchase Not Applicable
Only Once
Not Applicable
Yes
7
High-end Diagnostics
Within the first 
three policy 
years
Yes
Every year
No
Yes
(Medical 
underwriting 
is required 
where PED is 
declared)
8
Personal Accident Cover
For earning member – Sum 
Insured limit is up to Two 
times of basic indemnity 
sum insured subject to 
maximum of Rs. 2 Crore.
For dependent spouse - Up 
to 50% of earning spouse SI 
(or) Max Up to Rs.15 Lakh; 
Entry Age - From 18 years 
to 65 years and renewal is 
available up to 75 years.
Option A - 
Accidental 
Death Cover
Both
Yes
Every year
Yes
Yes
(Medical 
underwriting is 
required where 
PED is declared 
and Financial 
Underwriting is 
required if Sum 
Insured opted 
is more than 
Rs.25 Lakh)
Option B - 
Accidental 
Death and 
Permanent 
Total 
Disablement 
Cover
STAR HEALTH AND ALLIED INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED   |   POLICY WORDINGS 
SUPER STAR   |   UIN : SHAHLIP25036V012425   |   POL / SS / V.4 / 2025
38  /   38
SL
Name of the Optional cover
When this 
optional can 
be opted 
-At First 
purchase/ At 
Renewal/ Both
Once 
Opted Can 
Insured Opt 
out during 
renewal
Premium to 
be Paid
Once Opted 
out whether 
insured can 
opt in again?
Is Medical 
Underwriting 
Mandatory
9
Annual Health Check-up
Within the first 
three policy 
years
No
Every year
Not Applicable
No
10
Voluntary Co-payment
10% /20% /30% 
/40% /50%
Both
No
Not Applicable Not Applicable
No
11
Voluntary Deductible
10k / 25k / 50k / 1L 
/ 2L / 3L / 4L / 5L
Both
No
Not Applicable Not Applicable
No
12
Room Rent Modification
Single Private 
AC Room
Both
Available 
(only during 1st 
renewal)
Not Applicable
No
No
Shared Room
General Ward
13
E- International Second Opinion
Both
Yes
Every year
Yes
No
14
Durable Medical Equipment Cover
(Lifetime limit of Rs 5Lakh)
Within the first 
three policy 
years
Yes
Every year 
till limit is 
exhausted
No
No
15
Compassionate Visit
Both
Yes
Every year
Yes
No
16
Hospital Cash
Limits Per day 
- Rs. 1,000 / 
2,000 / 3,000 / 
4,000 / 5,000
No. of hospital 
cash days in a 
policy year - 
30 days /
60 days /
90 days /
180 days
Both
Yes
Every year
No
No
17
Reduction of Specified Disease / 
Procedure Waiting Period
24 months to 
12 months
At first 
purchase
Not Applicable
Two years
Not Applicable
Yes
18
Reduction of Pre-Existing 
Diseases Waiting Period 
(Other than those listed under 
Quick shield if opted)
36 months to 
24 months
At first 
purchase
Not Applicable
Three years
Not Applicable
Yes
36 months to 
12 months
Two years
19
Limitless Care
Within the first 
three policy 
years
Yes
Payable till a 
claim is paid 
under this 
optional cover
No
Yes
(Medical 
underwriting 
is required 
where PED is 
declared)
20
Super Star Bonus
(Guaranteed Bonus)
Both
Yes
Every year
No
Yes
(Medical 
underwriting 
is required 
where PED is 
declared)
21
NRI Advantage
Both
Yes
Not Applicable
Yes
No
